The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***




Produced by Graham Lawrence




A
A (named a in the English, and most commonly ä in other languages).

Defn: The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets.
The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as also
the small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter,
etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed from
the Greek Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the first
letter (Aleph, and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was a
consonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not an
element of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to represent
their vowel Alpha with the ä sound, the Phoenician alphabet having no
vowel symbols. This letter, in English, is used for several different
vowel sounds. See Guide to pronunciation, §§ 43-74. The regular long
a, as in fate, etc., is a comparatively modern sound, and has taken
the place of what, till about the early part of the 17th century, was
a sound of the quality of ä (as in far).

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The name of the sixth tone in the model major scale (that in
C), or the first tone of the minor scale, which is named after it the
scale in A minor. The second string of the violin is tuned to the A
in the treble staff.
 -- A sharp (A#) is the name of a musical tone intermediate between A
and B.
 -- A flat (A) is the name of a tone intermediate between A and G.

A per se Etym: (L. per se by itself), one preëminent; a nonesuch.
[Obs.]
O fair Creseide, the flower and A per se Of Troy and Greece. Chaucer.

A
A (# emph. #).

1. Etym: [Shortened form of an. AS. an one. See One.]

Defn: An adjective, commonly called the indefinite article, and
signifying one or any, but less emphatically.

Defn: "At a birth"; "In a word"; "At a blow". Shak.

Note: It is placed before nouns of the singular number denoting an
individual object, or a quality individualized, before collective
nouns, and also before plural nouns when the adjective few or the
phrase great many or good many is interposed; as, a dog, a house, a
man; a color; a sweetness; a hundred, a fleet, a regiment; a few
persons, a great many days. It is used for an, for the sake of
euphony, before words beginning with a consonant sound [for exception
of certain words beginning with h, see An]; as, a table, a woman, a
year, a unit, a eulogy, a ewe, a oneness, such a one, etc. Formally
an was used both before vowels and consonants.

2. Etym: [Originally the preposition a (an, on).]

Defn: In each; to or for each; as, "twenty leagues a day", "a hundred
pounds a year", "a dollar a yard", etc.

A
A, prep. Etym: [Abbreviated form of an (AS. on). See On.]

1. In; on; at; by. [Obs.] "A God's name." "Torn a pieces." "Stand a
tiptoe." "A Sundays" Shak. "Wit that men have now a days." Chaucer.
"Set them a work." Robynson (More's Utopia)

2. In process of; in the act of; into; to; -- used with verbal
substantives in -ing which begin with a consonant. This is a
shortened form of the preposition an (which was used before the vowel
sound); as in a hunting, a building, a begging. "Jacob, when he was a
dying" Heb. xi. 21. "We'll a birding together." " It was a doing."
Shak. "He burst out a laughing." Macaulay. The hyphen may be used to
connect a with the verbal substantive (as, a-hunting, a-building) or
the words may be written separately. This form of expression is now
for the most part obsolete, the a being omitted and the verbal
substantive treated as a participle.

A
A. Etym: [From AS. of off, from. See Of.]

Defn: Of. [Obs.] "The name of John a Gaunt." "What time a day is it "
Shak. "It's six a clock." B. Jonson.

A
A.

Defn: A barbarous corruption of have, of he, and sometimes of it and
of they. "So would I a done" "A brushes his hat." Shak.

A
A.

Defn: An expletive, void of sense, to fill up the meter
A merry heart goes all the day, Your sad tires in a mile-a. Shak.

A-
A-

Defn: A, as a prefix to English words, is derived from various
sources. (1) It frequently signifies on or in (from an, a forms of
AS. on), denoting a state, as in afoot, on foot, abed, amiss, asleep,
aground, aloft, away (AS. onweg), and analogically, ablaze, atremble,
etc. (2) AS. of off, from, as in adown (AS. ofdüne off the dun or
hill). (3) AS. a- (Goth. us-, ur-, Ger. er-), usually giving an
intensive force, and sometimes the sense of away, on, back, as in
arise, abide, ago. (4) Old English y- or i- (corrupted from the AS.
inseparable particle ge-, cognate with OHG. ga-, gi-, Goth. ga-),
which, as a prefix, made no essential addition to the meaning, as in
aware. (5) French à (L. ad to), as in abase, achieve. (6) L. a, ab,
abs, from, as in avert. (7) Greek insep. prefix a without, or
privative, not, as in abyss, atheist; akin to E. un-.

Note: Besides these, there are other sources from which the prefix a
takes its origin.

A 1
A 1. A registry mark given by underwriters (as at Lloyd's) to ships
in first-class condition. Inferior grades are indicated by A 2 and A
3.

Note: A 1 is also applied colloquially to other things to imply
superiority; prime; first-class; first-rate.

AAM
Aam, n. Etym: [D. aam, fr. LL. ama; cf. L. hama a water bucket, Gr.

Defn: A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different
cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36½, at
Hamburg 38¼. [Written also Aum and Awm.]

AARD-VARK
Aard"-vark`, n. Etym: [D., earth-pig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat
resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows
in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its
long, slimy tongue.

AARD-WOLF
Aard"-wolf`, n. Etym: [D, earth-wolf] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa,
resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.

AARONIC; AARONICAL
Aa*ron"ic, Aa*ron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.

AARON'S ROD
Aar"on's rod`. Etym: [See Exodus vii. 9 and Numbers xvii. 8]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A rod with one serpent twined around it, thus differing from
the caduceus of Mercury, which has two.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with a tall flowering stem; esp. the great mullein, or
hag-taper, and the golden-rod.

AB-
Ab-. Etym: [Latin prep., etymologically the same as E. of, off. See
Of.]

Defn: A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away
, separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-
(6).

AB
Ab, n. Etym: [Of Syriac origin.]

Defn: The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the
ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation,
coinciding nearly with August. W. Smith.

ABACA
Ab"a*ca, n. Etym: [The native name.]

Defn: The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See
Manila hemp under Manila.

ABACINATE
A*bac"i*nate, v.t. Etym: [LL. abacinatus, p.p. of abacinare; ab off +
bacinus a basin.]

Defn: To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes. [R.]

ABACINATION
A*bac`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of abacinating. [R.]

ABACISCUS
Ab`a*cis"cus, n. Etym: [Gr.Abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an
abaculus.

ABACIST
Ab"a*cist, n. Etym: [LL abacista, fr. abacus.]

Defn: One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.

ABACK
A*back", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + back; AS. on bæc at, on, or toward
the back. See Back.]

1. Toward the back or rear; backward. "Therewith aback she started."
Chaucer.

2. Behind; in the rear. Knolles.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: Backward against the mast;-said of the sails when pressed by
the wind. Totten. To be taken aback. (a) To be driven backward
against the mast; -- said of the sails, also of the ship when the
sails are thus driven. (b) To be suddenly checked, baffled, or
discomfited. Dickens.

ABACK
Ab"ack, n.

Defn: An abacus. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ABACTINAL
Ab*ac"ti*nal, a. Etym: [L. ab + E. actinal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a
radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal. "The aboral or abactinal
area." L. Agassiz.

ABACTION
Ab*ac"tion, n.

Defn: Stealing cattle on a large scale. [Obs.]

ABACTOR
Ab*ac"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. abigere to drive away; ab+agere to
drive.] (Law)

Defn: One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or
droves. [Obs.]

ABACULUS
A*bac"u*lus, n.; pl. Abaculi. Etym: [L., dim. of abacus.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various
colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.
Fairholt.

ABACUS
Ab"a*cus, n. E. pl. Abacuses ; L. pl. Abaci. Etym: [L. abacus, abax,
Gr.

1. A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing,
calculating, etc. [Obs.]

2. A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing
arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in
grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens,
etc. It is still employed in China.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column,
immediately under the architrave. See Column.
(b) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.

4. A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for
holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or
sideboard. Abacus harmonicus (Mus.), an ancient diagram showing the
structure and disposition of the keys of an instrument. Crabb.

ABADA
Ab"a*da, n. Etym: [Pg., the female rhinoceros.]

Defn: The rhinoceros. [Obs.] Purchas.

ABADDON
A*bad"don, n. Etym: [Heb. abaddon destruction, abyss, fr. abad to be
lost, to perish.]

1. The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as
Apollyon and Asmodeus.

2. Hell; the bottomless pit. [Poetic]
In all her gates, Abaddon rues Thy bold attempt. Milton.

ABAFT
A*baft", prep. Etym: [Pref. a-on + OE. baft, baften, biaften, AS.
beæftan; be by + æftan behind. See After, Aft, By.] (Naut.)

Defn: Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. Abaft
the beam. See under Beam.

ABAFT
A*baft", adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.

ABAISANCE
A*bai"sance, n. Etym: [For obeisance; confused with F. abaisser, E.
abase]

Defn: Obeisance. [Obs.] Jonson.

ABAISER
A*bai"ser, n.

Defn: Ivory black or animal charcoal. Weale.

ABAIST
A*baist", p.p.

Defn: Abashed; confounded; discomfited. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABALIENATE
Ab*al"ien*ate, v.t. Etym: [L. abalienatus, p.p. of abalienare; ab +
alienus foreign, alien. See Alien.]

1. (Civil Law)

Defn: To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.

2. To estrange; to withdraw. [Obs.]

3. To cause alienation of (mind). Sandys.

ABALIENATION
Ab*al`ien*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. abalienatio: cf. F. abalianation.]

Defn: The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement. [Obs.]

ABALONE
Ab`a*lo"ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined
with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear.
Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging
closely to the rocks.

ABAND
A*band", v.t. Etym: [Contracted from abandon.]

1. To abandon. [Obs.]
Enforced the kingdom to aband. Spenser.

2. To banish; to expel. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abandoned; p.pr. & vb.n. Abandoning.]
Etym: [OF. abandoner, F.abandonner; a (L. ad)+bandon permission,
authority, LL. bandum, bannum, public proclamation, interdiction,
bannire to proclaim, summon: of Germanic origin; cf. Goth. bandwjan
to show by signs, to designate OHG. banproclamation. The word meant
to proclaim, put under a ban, put under control; hence, as in OE., to
compel, subject, or to leave in the control of another, and hence, to
give up. See Ban.]

1. To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject. [Obs.]
That he might . . . abandon them from him. Udall.
Being all this time abandoned from your bed. Shak.

2. To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly;
to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a
person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to
surrender.
Hope was overthrown, yet could not be abandoned. I. Taylor.

3. Reflexively : To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-
control ; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly ; -- often in a bad
sense.
He abandoned himself . . . to his favorite vice. Macaulay.

4. (Mar. Law)

Defn: To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person
gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a
policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured
against.

Syn.
 -- To give up; yield; forego; cede; surrender; resign; abdicate;
quit; relinquish; renounce; desert; forsake; leave; retire; withdraw
from.
 -- To Abandon, Desert, Forsake. These words agree in representing a
person as giving up or leaving some object, but differ as to the mode
of doing it. The distinctive sense of abandon is that of giving up a
thing absolutely and finally; as, to abandon one's friends, places,
opinions, good or evil habits, a hopeless enterprise, a shipwrecked
vessel. Abandon is more widely applicable than forsake or desert. The
Latin original of desert appears to have been originally applied to
the case of deserters from military service. Hence, the verb, when
used of persons in the active voice, has usually or always a bad
sense, implying some breach of fidelity, honor, etc., the leaving of
something which the person should rightfully stand by and support;
as, to desert one's colors, to desert one's post, to desert one's
principles or duty. When used in the passive, the sense is not
necessarily bad; as, the fields were deserted, a deserted village,
deserted halls. Forsake implies the breaking off of previous habit,
association, personal connection, or that the thing left had been
familiar or frequented; as, to forsake old friends, to forsake the
paths of rectitude, the blood forsook his cheeks. It may be used
either in a good or in a bad sense.

ABANDON
A*ban"don, n. Etym: [F. abandon. fr. abandonner. See Abandon, v.]

Defn: Abandonment; relinquishment. [Obs.]

ABANDON
A`ban`don", n. Etym: [F. See Abandon.]

Defn: A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from
artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.

ABANDONED
A*ban"doned, a.

1. Forsaken, deserted. "Your abandoned streams." Thomson.

2. Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning
without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.

Syn.
 -- Profligate; dissolute; corrupt; vicious; depraved; reprobate;
wicked; unprincipled; graceless; vile.
 -- Abandoned, Profligate, Reprobate. These adjectives agree in
expressing the idea of great personal depravity. Profligate has
reference to open and shameless immoralities, either in private life
or political conduct; as, a profligate court, a profligate ministry.
Abandoned is stronger, and has reference to the searing of conscience
and hardening of heart produced by a man's giving himself wholly up
to iniquity; as, a man of abandoned character. Reprobate describes
the condition of one who has become insensible to reproof, and who is
morally abandoned and lost beyond hope of recovery.
God gave them over to a reprobate mind. Rom. i. 28.

ABANDONEDLY
A*ban"doned*ly, adv.

Defn: Unrestrainedly.

ABANDONEE
A*ban`don*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom anything is legally abandoned.

ABANDONER
A*ban"don*er, n.

Defn: One who abandons. Beau. & Fl.

ABANDONMENT
A*ban"don*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abandonnement.]

1. The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total
desertion; relinquishment.
The abandonment of the independence of Europe. Burke.

2. (Mar. Law)

Defn: The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what
may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril
insured against.

3. (Com. Law)

Defn: (a) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to
mill site, etc. (b) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is
bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.

4. Careless freedom or ease; abandon. [R.] Carlyle.

ABANDUM
A*ban"*dum, n. Etym: [LL. See Abandon.] (Law)

Defn: Anything forfeited or confiscated.

ABANET
Ab"a*net, n.

Defn: See Abnet.

ABANGA
A*ban"ga, n. Etym: [Name given by the negroes in the island of St.
Thomas.]

Defn: A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of
which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.

ABANNATION; ABANNITION
Ab`an*na"tion, Ab`an*nition, n. Etym: [LL. abannatio; ad + LL.
bannire to banish.] (Old Law)

Defn: Banishment. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABARTICULATION
Ab`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ab + E. articulation : cf. F.
abarticulation. See Article.] (Anat.)

Defn: Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of
free motion in the joint; diarthrosis. Coxe.

ABASE
A*base", v.t. [imp.&p.p. Abased; p.pr. & vb. n. Abasing.] Etym: [F.
abaisser, LL. abassare, abbassare ; ad + bassare, fr. bassus low. See
Base, a.]

1. To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the eye.
[Archaic] Bacon.
Saying so, he abased his lance. Shelton.

2. To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition
in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to
degrade.
Whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased. Luke xiv. ll.

Syn.
 -- To Abase, Debase, Degrade. These words agree in the idea of
bringing down from a higher to a lower state. Abase has reference to
a bringing down in condition or feelings; as to abase one's self
before God. Debase has reference to the bringing down of a thing in
purity, or making it base. It is, therefore, always used in a bad
sense, as, to debase the coin of the kingdom, to debase the mind by
vicious indulgence, to debase one's style by coarse or vulgar
expressions. Degrade has reference to a bringing down from some
higher grade or from some standard. Thus, a priest is degraded from
the clerical office. When used in a moral sense, it denotes a
bringing down in character and just estimation; as, degraded by
intemperance, a degrading employment, etc. "Art is degraded when it
is regarded only as a trade."

ABASED
A*based", a.

1. Lowered; humbled.

2. (Her.) Etym: [F. abaissé.]

Defn: Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the
wings turned downward towards the point of the shield.

ABASEDLY
A*bas"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Abjectly; downcastly.

ABASEMENT
A*base"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abaissement.]

Defn: The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of
being abased or humbled; humiliation.

ABASER
A*bas"er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, abases.

ABASH
A*bash", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abashed; p.pr. & vb. n. Abashing.] Etym:
[OE. abaissen, abaisshen, abashen, OF.esbahir, F. ébahir, to
astonish, fr. L. ex + the interjection bah, expressing astonishment.
In OE. somewhat confused with abase. Cf. Finish.]

Defn: To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as
by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or
inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.
Abashed, the devil stood, And felt how awful goodness is. Milton.
He was a man whom no check could abash. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To confuse; confound; disconcert; shame.
 -- To Abash, Confuse, Confound. Abash is a stronger word than
confuse, but not so strong as confound. We are abashed when struck
either with sudden shame or with a humbling sense of inferiority; as,
Peter was abashed in the presence of those who are greatly his
superiors. We are confused when, from some unexpected or startling
occurrence, we lose clearness of thought and self-possession. Thus, a
witness is often confused by a severe cross-examination; a timid
person is apt to be confused in entering a room full of strangers. We
are confounded when our minds are overwhelmed, as it were, by
something wholly unexpected, amazing, dreadful, etc., so that we have
nothing to say. Thus, a criminal is usually confounded at the
discovery of his guilt.
Satan stood Awhile as mute, confounded what to say. Milton.

ABASHEDLY
A*bash"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abashed manner.

ABASHMENT
A*bash"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ébahissement.]

Defn: The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.

ABASIA
A*ba"si*a, n. [NL.; Gr. - not +  a step.] (Med.)

Defn: Inability to coördinate muscular actions properly in walking. -
- A*ba"sic (#), a.

ABASSI; ABASSIS
A*bas"si, A*bas"sis, n. Etym: [Ar.& Per. abasi, belonging to Abas (a
king of Persia).]

Defn: A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.

ABATABLE
A*bat"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.

ABATE
A*bate", v.t. [imp.& p.p. Abated, p.pr. & vb.n. Abating.] Etym: [OF.
abatre to beat down, F. abattre, LL. abatere; ab or ad + batere,
battere (popular form for L. batuere to beat). Cf. Bate, Batter.]

1. To beat down; to overthrow. [Obs.]
The King of Scots . . . sore abated the walls. Edw. Hall.

2. To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state, number, or
degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; toto cut
short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.
His eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated. Deut. xxxiv. 7.

3. To deduct; to omit; as, to abate something from a price.
Nine thousand parishes, abating the odd hundreds. Fuller.

4. To blunt. [Obs.]
To abate the edge of envy. Bacon.

5. To reduce in estimation; to deprive. [Obs.]
She hath abated me of half my train. Shak.

6. (Law)

Defn: (a) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with;
as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ. (b) (Eng. Law) To diminish;
to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in
proportion, upon a deficiency of assets. To abate a tax, to remit it
either wholly or in part.

ABATE
A*bate", v.i. Etym: [See Abate, v.t.]

1. To decrease, or become less in strength or violence; as, pain
abates, a storm abates.
The fury of Glengarry . . . rapidly abated. Macaulay.

2. To be defeated, or come to naught; to fall through; to fail; as, a
writ abates. To abate into a freehold, To abate in lands (Law), to
enter into a freehold after the death of the last possessor, and
before the heir takes possession. See Abatement, 4.

Syn.
 -- To subside; decrease; intermit; decline; diminish; lessen.
 -- To Abate, Subside. These words, as here compared, imply a coming
down from some previously raised or exited state. Abate expresses
this in respect to degrees, and implies a diminution of force or of
intensity; as, the storm abates, the cold abates, the force of the
wind abates; or, the wind abates, a fever abates. Subside (to settle
down) has reference to a previous state of agitation or commotion;
as, the waves subside after a storm, the wind subsides into a calm.
When the words are used figuratively, the same distinction should be
observed. If we conceive of a thing as having different degrees of
intensity or strength, the word to be used is abate. Thus we say, a
man's anger abates, the ardor of one's love abates, "Winter rage
abates". But if the image be that of a sinking down into quiet from
preceding excitement or commotion, the word to be used is subside;
as, the tumult of the people subsides, the public mind subsided into
a calm. The same is the case with those emotions which are tumultuous
in their nature; as, his passion subsides, his joy quickly subsided,
his grief subsided into a pleasing melancholy. Yet if, in such cases,
we were thinking of the degree of violence of the emotion, we might
use abate; as, his joy will abate in the progress of time; and so in
other instances.

ABATE
A*bate, n.

Defn: Abatement. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABATEMENT
A*bate"ment, n. Etym: [OF. abatement, F. abattement.]

1. The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a lessening,
diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as, the
abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.

2. The amount abated; that which is taken away by way of reduction;
deduction; decrease; a rebate or discount allowed.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.

4. (Law)

Defn: The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold after
the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.
Blackstone. Defense in abatement, Plea in abatement, (Law), plea to
the effect that from some formal defect (e.g. misnomer, want of
jurisdiction) the proceedings should be abated.

ABATER
A*bat"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, abates.

ABATIS; ABATTIS
Ab"a*tis, Aba"t*tis, n. Etym: [F. abatis, abattis, mass of things
beaten or cut down, fr. abattre. See Abate.] (Fort.)

Defn: A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose
branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.

ABATISED
Ab"a*tised, a.

Defn: Provided with an abatis.

ABATOR
A*ba"tor, n. (Law)

Defn: (a) One who abates a nuisance. (b) A person who, without right,
enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the
heir or devisee. Blackstone.

ABATTOIR
A`bat`toir", n.; pl. Abattoirs. Etym: [F., fr. abattre to beat down.
See Abate.]

Defn: A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.

ABATURE
Ab"a*ture, n. Etym: [F. abatture, fr. abattre. See Abate.]

Defn: Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing
through them. Crabb.

ABATVOIX
A`bat`voix", n. Etym: [F. abattre to beat down + voix voice.]

Defn: The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.

ABAWED
Ab*awed", p.p. Etym: [Perh. p.p. of a verb fr. OF. abaubir to
frighten, disconcert, fr. L. ad + balbus stammering.]

Defn: Astonished; abashed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABAXIAL; ABAXILE
Ab*ax"i*al, Ab*ax"ile, a. Etym: [L. ab + axis axle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Away from the axis or central line; eccentric. Balfour.

ABAY
A*bay", n. Etym: [OF. abay barking.]

Defn: Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay. [Obs.]

ABB
Abb, n. Etym: [AS. aweb, ab; pref. a- + web. See Web.]

Defn: Among weaves, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for
the abb.

ABBA
Ab"ba, n. Etym: [Syriac abba father. See Abbot.]

Defn: Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and
Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops
to the patriarch.

ABBACY
Ab"ba*cy, n.; pl. Abbacies. Etym: [L. abbatia, fr. abbas, abbatis,
abbot. See Abbey.]

Defn: The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.

ABBATIAL
Ab*ba"tial, a. Etym: [LL. abbatialis : cf. F. abbatial.]

Defn: Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.

ABBATICAL
Ab*bat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Abbatial. [Obs.]

ABBE
Ab"bé`, n.Etym: [F. abbé. See Abbot.]

Defn: The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an
abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one
vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.

Note: * After the 16th century, the name was given, in social
parlance, to candidates for some priory or abbey in the gift of the
crown. Many of these aspirants became well known in literary and
fashionable life. By further extension, the name came to be applied
to unbeneficed secular ecclesiastics generally. Littré.

ABBESS
Ab"bess, n. Etym: [OF.abaesse, abeesse, F. abbesse, L. abbatissa,
fem. of abbas, abbatis, abbot. See Abbot.]

Defn: A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of
nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have
over the monks. See Abbey.

ABBEY
Ab"bey, n.; pl. Abbeys. Etym: [OF. abaïe, F. abbaye, L. abbatia, fr.
abbas abbot. See Abbot.]

1. A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the
world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic
building or buildings.

Note: The men are called monks, and governed by an abbot; the women
are called nuns, and governed by an abbess.

2. The church of a monastery.

Note: In London, the Abbey means Westminster Abbey, and in Scotland,
the precincts of the Abbey of Holyrood. The name is also retained for
a private residence on the site of an abbey; as, Newstead Abbey, the
residence of Lord Byron.

Syn.
 -- Monastery; convent; nunnery; priory; cloister. See Cloister.

ABBOT
Ab"bot, n. Etym: [AS. abbod, abbad, L. abbas, abbatis, Gr. abba
father. Cf. Abba, AbbÉ.]

1. The superior or head of an abbey.

2. One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys. Encyc.
Brit. Abbot of the people. a title formerly given to one of the chief
magistrates in Genoa.
 -- Abbot of Misrule (or Lord of Misrule), in mediæval times, the
master of revels, as at Christmas; in Scotland called the Abbot of
Unreason. Encyc. Brit.

ABBOTSHIP
Ab"bot*ship, n. Etym: [Abbot + -ship.]

Defn: The state or office of an abbot.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abbreviated; p.pr. & vb.n.
Abbreviating.] Etym: [L. abbreviatus, p.p. of abbreviare; ad +
breviare to shorten, fr. brevis short. See Abridge.]

1. To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction
or omission, especially of words written or spoken.
It is one thing to abbreviate by contracting, another by cutting off.
Bacon.

2. (Math.)

Defn: To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, a. Etym: [L. abbreviatus, p.p.]

1. Abbreviated; abridged; shortened. [R.] "The abbreviate form."
Earle.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Having one part relatively shorter than another or than the
ordinary type.

ABBREVIATE
Ab*bre"vi*ate, n.

Defn: An abridgment. [Obs.] Elyot.

ABBREVIATED
Ab*bre"vi*a`ted, a.

Defn: Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.

ABBREVIATION
Ab*bre`vi*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. abbreviatio: cf. F. abbréviation.]

1. The act of shortening, or reducing.

2. The result of abbreviating; an abridgment. Tylor.

3. The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by contraction and
omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or phrase of which
they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for United States of
America.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing it
respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers. Moore.

ABBREVIATOR
Ab*bre"vi*a`tor, n. Etym: [LL.: cf. F. abbréviateur.]

1. One who abbreviates or shortens.

2. One of a college of seventy-two officers of the papal court whose
duty is to make a short minute of a decision on a petition, or reply
of the pope to a letter, and afterwards expand the minute into
official form.

ABBREVIATORY
Ab*bre"vi*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.

ABBREVIATURE
Ab*bre"vi*a*ture, n.

1. An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form. [Obs.]

2. An abridgment; a compendium or abstract.
This is an excellent abbreviature of the whole duty of a Christian.
Jer. Taylor.

ABB WOOL
Abb" wool.

Defn: See Abb.

A B C
A B C".

1. The first three letters of the alphabet, used for the whole
alphabet.

2. A primer for teaching the alphabet and first elements of reading.
[Obs.]

3. The simplest rudiments of any subject; as, the A B C of finance. A
B C book, a primer. Shak.

ABDAL
Ab"dal, n. Etym: [Ar. badil, pl. abdal, a substitute, a good,
religious man, saint, fr. badala to change, substitute.]

Defn: A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.

ABDERIAN
Ab*de"ri*an, a. Etym: [From Abdera, a town in Thrace, of which place
Democritus, the Laughing Philosopher, was a native.]

Defn: Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.

ABDERITE
Ab*de"rite, n. Etym: [L. Abderita, Abderites, fr. Gr. '

Defn: An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace. The Abderite, Democritus,
the Laughing Philosopher.

ABDEST
Ab"dest, n. Etym: [Per. abdast; ab water + dast hand.]

Defn: Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a
Mohammedan rite. Heyse.

ABDICABLE
Ab"di*ca*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abdicated.

ABDICANT
Ab"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. abdicans, p.pr. of abdicare.]

Defn: Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.
Monks abdicant of their orders. Whitlock.

ABDICANT
Ab"di*cant, n.

Defn: One who abdicates. Smart.

ABDICATE
Ab"di*cate, v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abdicated; p.pr. & vb.n. Abdicating.]
Etym: [L. abdicatus, p.p. of abdicare; ab + dicare to proclaim, akin
to dicere to say. See Diction.]

1. To surrender or relinquish, as sovereign power; to withdraw
definitely from filling or exercising, as a high office, station,
dignity; as, to abdicate the throne, the crown, the papacy.

Note: The word abdicate was held to mean, in the case of James II.,
to abandon without a formal surrender.
The cross-bearers abdicated their service. Gibbon.

2. To renounce; to relinquish; -- said of authority, a trust, duty,
right, etc.
He abdicates all right to be his own governor. Burke.
The understanding abdicates its functions. Froude.

3. To reject; to cast off. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

4. (Civil Law)

Defn: To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child;
to disown; to disinherit.

Syn.
 -- To give up; quit; vacate; relinquish; forsake; abandon; resign;
renounce; desert.
 -- To Abdicate, Resign. Abdicate commonly expresses the act of a
monarch in voluntary and formally yielding up sovereign authority;
as, to abdicate the government. Resign is applied to the act of any
person, high or low, who gives back an office or trust into the hands
of him who conferred it. Thus, a minister resigns, a military officer
resigns, a clerk resigns. The expression, "The king resigned his
crown," sometimes occurs in our later literature, implying that he
held it from his people.
 -- There are other senses of resign which are not here brought into
view.

ABDICATE
Ab"di*cate, v.i.

Defn: To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high office or
dignity.
Though a king may abdicate for his own person, he cannot abdicate for
the monarchy. Burke.

ABDICATION
Ab`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. abdicatio: cf. F. abdication.]

Defn: The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office,
dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciation
of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power,
authority.

ABDICATIVE
Ab"di*ca*tive, a. Etym: [L. abdicativus.]

Defn: Causing, or implying, abdication. [R.] Bailey.

ABDICATOR
Ab"di*ca`tor, n.

Defn: One who abdicates.

ABDITIVE
Ab"di*tive, a. Etym: [L. abditivus, fr. abdere to hide.]

Defn: Having the quality of hiding. [R.] Bailey.

ABDITORY
Ab"di*to*ry, n. Etym: [L. abditorium.]

Defn: A place for hiding or preserving articles of value. Cowell.

ABDOMEN
Ab*do"men, n. Etym: [L. abdomen (a word of uncertain etymol.): cf. F.
abdomen.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and the
pelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by the
peritoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. In
man, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and the
commencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelvic
cavity.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The posterior section of the body, behind the thorax, in
insects, crustaceans, and other Arthropoda.

ABDOMINAL
Ab*dom"i*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abdominal.]

1. Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the abdominal
regions, muscles, cavity.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as,
abdominal fishes. Abdominal ring (Anat.), a fancied ringlike opening
on each side of the abdomen, external and superior to the pubes; --
called also inguinal ring.

ABDOMINAL
Ab*dom"i*nal, n.; E. pl. Abdominals, L. pl. Abdominales.

Defn: A fish of the group Abdominales.

ABDOMINALES
Ab*dom`i*na"les, n. pl. Etym: [NL., masc. pl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, and
many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behind
the pectorals.

ABDOMINALIA
Ab*dom`i*na"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., neut. pl.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.

ABDOMINOSCOPY
Ab*dom`i*nos"co*py, n. Etym: [L. abdomen + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.

ABDOMINOTHORACIC
Ab*dom`i*no*tho*rac"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.

ABDOMINOUS
Ab*dom"i*nous, a.

Defn: Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.
Gorgonius sits, abdominous and wan, Like a fat squab upon a Chinese
fan. Cowper.

ABDUCE
Ab*duce", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abduced; p.pr. & vb.n. Abducing.] Etym:
[L. abducere to lead away; ab + ducere to lead. See Duke, and cf.
Abduct.]

Defn: To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different
part. [Obs.]
If we abduce the eye unto either corner, the object will not
duplicate. Sir T. Browne.

ABDUCT
Ab*duct", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abducted; p.pr. & vb.n. Abducting.] Etym:
[L. abductus, p.p. of abducere. See Abduce.]

1. To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a human
being) wrongfully and usually by violence; to kidnap.

2. To draw away, as a limb or other part, from its ordinary position.

ABDUCTION
Ab*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. abductio: cf. F. abduction.]

1. The act of abducing or abducting; a drawing apart; a carrying
away. Roget.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The movement which separates a limb or other part from the
axis, or middle line, of the body.

3. (Law)

Defn: The wrongful, and usually the forcible, carrying off of a human
being; as, the abduction of a child, the abduction of an heiress.

4. (Logic)

Defn: A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is evident,
but the minor is only probable.

ABDUCTOR
Ab*duc"tor, n. Etym: [NL.]

1. One who abducts.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the median
line of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eye
outward.

ABEAM
A*beam", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + beam.] (Naut.)

Defn: On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with
the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.

ABEAR
A*bear", v.t. Etym: [AS. aberan; pref. a- + beran to bear.]

1. To bear; to behave. [Obs.]
So did the faery knight himself abear. Spenser.

2. To put up with; to endure. [Prov.] Dickens.

ABEARANCE
A*bear"ance, n.

Defn: Behavior. [Obs.] Blackstone.

ABEARING
A*bear"ing, n.

Defn: Behavior. [Obs.] Sir. T. More.

ABECEDARIAN
A`be*ce*da"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. abecedarius. A word from the first
four letters of the alphabet.]

1. One who is learning the alphabet; hence, a tyro.

2. One engaged in teaching the alphabet. Wood.

ABECEDARIAN; ABECEDARY
A`be*ce*da"ri*an, A`be*ce"da*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet;
alphabetic; hence, rudimentary. Abecedarian psalms, hymns, etc.,
compositions in which (like the 119th psalm in Hebrew) distinct
portions or verses commence with successive letters of the alphabet.
Hook.

ABECEDARY
A`be*ce"da*ry, n.

Defn: A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything. [R.]
Fuller.

ABED
A*bed", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- in, on + bed.]

1. In bed, or on the bed.
Not to be abed after midnight. Shak.

2. To childbed (in the phrase "brought abed," that is, delivered of a
child). Shak.

ABEGGE
A*beg"ge.

Defn: Same as Aby. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABELE
A*bele", n. Etym: [D. abeel (abeel-boom), OF. abel, aubel, fr. a dim.
of L. albus white.]

Defn: The white polar (Populus alba).
Six abeles i' the churchyard grow. Mrs. Browning.

ABELIAN; ABELITE; ABELONIAN
A*bel"i*an, A"bel*ite, A`bel*o"ni*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St.
Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence,
after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.

ABELMOSK
A"bel*mosk`, n. Etym: [NL. abelmoschus, fr. Ar. abu-l-misk father of
musk, i.e., producing musk. See Musk.] (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus-
moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose
musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes
called musk mallow.

ABER-DE-VINE
Ab`er-de-vine", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green and
yellow finch, related to the goldfinch.

ABERR
Ab*err", v.i. Etym: [L. aberrare. See Aberrate.]

Defn: To wander; to stray. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABERRANCE; ABERRANCY
Ab*er"rance, Ab*er"ran*cy, n.

Defn: State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way;
deviation from truth, rectitude, etc. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.),
the deviation of a curve from a circular form.

ABERRANT
Ab*er"rant, a. Etym: [L. aberrans, -rantis, p.pr. of aberrare.]

Defn: See Aberr.]

1. Wandering; straying from the right way.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Deviating from the ordinary or natural type; exceptional;
abnormal.
The more aberrant any form is, the greater must have been the number
of connecting forms which, on my theory, have been exterminated.
Darwin.

ABERRATE
Ab"er*rate, v.i. Etym: [L. aberratus, p.pr. of aberrare; ab + errare
to wander. See Err.]

Defn: To go astray; to diverge. [R.]
Their own defective and aberrating vision. De Quincey.

ABERRATION
Ab`er*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. aberratio: cf. F. aberration. See
Aberrate.]

1. The act of wandering; deviation, especially from truth or moral
rectitude, from the natural state, or from a type. "The aberration of
youth." Hall. "Aberrations from theory." Burke.

2. A partial alienation of reason. "Occasional aberrations of
intellect." Lingard.
Whims, which at first are the aberrations of a single brain, pass
with heat into epidemic form. I. Taylor.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: A small periodical change of position in the stars and other
heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light
and the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when the
observer's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and dairy or
diurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting when
greatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''.
Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and the
motion of the planet relative to the earth.

4. (Opt.)

Defn: The convergence to different foci, by a lens or mirror, of rays
of light emanating from one and the same point, or the deviation of
such rays from a single focus; called spherical aberration, when due
to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such form giving
different foci for central and marginal rays; and chromatic
aberration, when due to different refrangibilities of the colored
rays of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.

5. (Physiol.)

Defn: The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not appropriate
for it.

6. (Law)

Defn: The producing of an unintended effect by the glancing of an
instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; lunacy; madness; derangement; alienation; mania;
dementia; hallucination; illusion; delusion. See Insanity.

ABERRATIONAL
Ab`er*ra"tion*al, a.

Defn: Characterized by aberration.

ABERUNCATE
Ab`e*run"cate, v.t. Etym: [L. aberuncare, for aberruncare. See
Averruncate.]

Defn: To weed out. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABERUNCATOR
Ab`e*run"ca*tor, n.

Defn: A weeding machine.

ABET
A*bet", v.t. [imp. & p.p. Abetted; p.pr. & vb.n. Abetting.] Etym:
[OF. abeter; a (L. ad) + beter to bait (as a bear), fr. Icel. beita
to set dogs on, to feed, originally, to cause to bite, fr. Icel. bita
to bite, hence to bait, to incite. See Bait, Bet.]

1. To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad
sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet one in
his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection. "The whole
tribe abets the villany." South.
Would not the fool abet the stealth, Who rashly thus exposed his
wealth Gay.

2. To support, uphold, or aid; to maintain; -- in a good sense.
[Obs.].
Our duty is urged, and our confidence abetted. Jer. Taylor.

3. (Law)

Defn: To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commission
of an offense.

Syn.
 -- To incite; instigate; set on; egg on; foment; advocate;
countenance; encourage; second; uphold; aid; assist; support;
sustain; back; connive at.

ABET
A*bet", n. Etym: [OF. abet, fr. abeter.]

Defn: Act of abetting; aid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABETMENT
A*bet"ment, n.

Defn: The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.

ABETTAL
A*bet"tal, n.

Defn: Abetment. [R.]

ABETTER; ABETTOR
A*bet"ter, A*bet*tor, n.

Defn: One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.

Note: The form abettor is the legal term and also in general use.

Syn.
 -- Abettor, Accessory, Accomplice. These words denote different
degrees of complicity in some deed or crime. An abettor is one who
incites or encourages to the act, without sharing in its performance.
An accessory supposes a principal offender. One who is neither the
chief actor in an offense, nor present at its performance, but
accedes to or becomes involved in its guilt, either by some previous
or subsequent act, as of instigating, encouraging, aiding, or
concealing, etc., is an accessory. An accomplice is one who
participates in the commission of an offense, whether as principal or
accessory. Thus in treason, there are no abettors or accessories, but
all are held to be principals or accomplices.

ABEVACUATION
Ab`e*vac"u*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. ab- + evacuation.] (Med.)

Defn: A partial evacuation. Mayne.

ABEYANCE
A*bey"ance, n. Etym: [OF. abeance expectation, longing; a (L. ad) +
baer, beer, to gape, to look with open mouth, to expect, F. bayer,
LL. badare to gape.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.

Note: When there is no person in existence in whom an inheritance (or
a dignity) can vest, it is said to be in abeyance, that is, in
expectation; the law considering it as always potentially existing,
and ready to vest whenever a proper owner appears. Blackstone.

2. Suspension; temporary suppression.
Keeping the sympathies of love and admiration in a dormant state, or
state of abeyance. De Quincey.

ABEYANCY
A*bey"an*cy, n.

Defn: Abeyance. [R.] Hawthorne.

ABEYANT
A*bey"ant, a.

Defn: Being in a state of abeyance.

ABGEORDNETENHAUS
Ab"ge*ord`ne*ten*haus`, n.  [G.]

Defn: See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.

ABHAL
Ab"hal, n.

Defn: The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.

ABHOMINABLE
Ab*hom"i*na*ble, a.

Defn: Abominable.

Note: [A false orthography anciently used; h was foisted into various
words; hence abholish, for abolish, etc.]
This is abhominable, which he [Don Armado] would call abominable.
Shak. Love's Labor's Lost, v. 1.

ABHOMINAL
Ab*hom`i*nal, a. Etym: [L. ab away from + homo, hominis, man.]

Defn: Inhuman. [Obs.] Fuller.

ABHOR
Ab*hor", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abhorred; p. pr. & vb. n. Abhorring.]
Etym: [L. abhorrere; ab + horrere to bristle, shiver, shudder: cf. F.
abhorrer. See Horrid.]

1. To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with horror or
detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest to
extremity; to loathe.
Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good. Rom. xii. 9.

2. To fill with horror or disgust. [Obs.]
It doth abhor me now I speak the word. Shak.

3. (Canon Law)

Defn: To protest against; to reject solemnly. [Obs.]
I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul Refuse you for my judge. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To hate; detest; loathe; abominate. See Hate.

ABHOR
Ab*hor", v. i.

Defn: To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary
or averse; -- with from. [Obs.] "To abhor from those vices." Udall.
Which is utterly abhorring from the end of all law. Milton.

ABHORRENCE
Ab*hor"rence, n.

Defn: Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.

ABHORRENCY
Ab*hor"ren*cy, n.

Defn: Abhorrence. [Obs.] Locke.

ABHORRENT
Ab*hor"rent, a. Etym: [L. abhorens, -rentis, p. pr. of abhorrere.]

1. Abhorring; detesting; having or showing abhorrence; loathing;
hence, strongly opposed to; as, abhorrent thoughts.
The persons most abhorrent from blood and treason. Burke.
The arts of pleasure in despotic courts I spurn abhorrent. Clover.

2. Contrary or repugnant; discordant; inconsistent; -- followed by
to. "Injudicious profanation, so abhorrent to our stricter
principles." Gibbon.

3. Detestable. "Pride, abhorrent as it is." I. Taylor.

ABHORRENTLY
Ab*hor"rent*ly, adv.

Defn: With abhorrence.

ABHORRER
Ab*hor"rer, n.

Defn: One who abhors. Hume.

ABHORRIBLE
Ab*hor"ri*ble, a.

Defn: Detestable. [R.]

ABHORRING
Ab*hor"ring, n.

1. Detestation. Milton.

2. Object of abhorrence. Isa. lxvi. 24.

ABIB
A"bib, n. Etym: [Heb. abib, lit. an ear of corn. The month was so
called from barley being at that time in ear.]

Defn: The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year,
corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity
this month was called Nisan. Kitto.

ABIDANCE
A*bid"ance, n.

Defn: The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).
The Christians had no longer abidance in the holy hill of Palestine.
Fuller.
A judicious abidance by rules. Helps.

ABIDE
A*bide", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abode, formerly Abid(#); p. pr. & vb. n.
Abiding.] Etym: [AS. abidan; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, G. er-, orig.
meaning out) + bidan to bide. See Bide.]

1. To wait; to pause; to delay. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to
sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at or in
before a place.
Let the damsel abide with us a few days. Gen. xxiv. 55.

3. To remain stable or fixed in some state or condition; to continue;
to remain.
Let every man abide in the same calling. 1 Cor. vii. 20.
Followed by by: To abide by. (a) To stand to; to adhere; to maintain.
The poor fellow was obstinate enough to abide by what he said at
first. Fielding.
(b) To acquiesce; to conform to; as, to abide by a decision or an
award.

ABIDE
A*bide", v. t.

1. To wait for; to be prepared for; to await; to watch for; as, I
abide my time. "I will abide the coming of my lord." Tennyson.

Note: [[Obs.], with a personal object.
Bonds and afflictions abide me. Acts xx. 23.

2. To endure; to sustain; to submit to.
[Thou] shalt abide her judgment on it. Tennyson.

3. To bear patiently; to tolerate; to put up with.
She could not abide Master Shallow. Shak.

4.

Note: [Confused with aby to pay for. See Aby.]

Defn: To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.
Dearly I abide that boast so vain. Milton.

ABIDER
A*bid"er, n.

1. One who abides, or continues. [Obs.] "Speedy goers and strong
abiders." Sidney.

2. One who dwells; a resident. Speed.

ABIDING
A*bid"ing, a.

Defn: Continuing; lasting.

ABIDINGLY
A*bid"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: Permanently. Carlyle.

ABIES
A"bi*es, n. Etym: [L., fir tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam
fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to
this genus.

ABIETENE
Ab"i*e*tene, n. Etym: [L. abies, abietis, a fir tree.]

Defn: A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nut
pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.

ABIETIC
Ab`i*et"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abietic
acid, called also sylvic acid. Watts.

ABIETIN; ABIETINE
Ab"i*e*tin, Ab"i*e*tine, n. Etym: [See Abietene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam.
It is without taste or smell, is insoluble in water, but soluble in
alcohol (especially at the boiling point), in strong acetic acid, and
in ether. Watts.

ABIETINIC
Ab`i*e*tin"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.

ABIETITE
Ab"i*e*tite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of the
common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata). Eng. Cyc.

ABIGAIL
Ab"i*gail, n. Etym: [The proper name used as an appellative.]

Defn: A lady's waiting-maid. Pepys.
Her abigail reported that Mrs. Gutheridge had a set of night curls
for sleeping in. Leslie.

ABILIMENT
A*bil"i*ment, n.

Defn: Habiliment. [Obs.]

ABILITY
A*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Abilities(#). Etym: [F. habileté, earlier
spelling habilité (with silent h), L. habilitas aptitude, ability,
fr. habilis apt. See Able.]

Defn: The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether
physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity;
skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill,
resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.
Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined to
send relief unto the brethren. Acts xi. 29.
Natural abilities are like natural plants, that need pruning by
study. Bacon.
The public men of England, with much of a peculiar kind of ability.
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Capacity; talent; cleverness; faculty; capability; efficiency;
aptitude; aptness; address; dexterity; skill. Ability, Capacity.
These words come into comparison when applied to the higher
intellectual powers. Ability has reference to the active exercise of
our faculties. It implies not only native vigor of mind, but that
ease and promptitude of execution which arise from mental training.
Thus, we speak of the ability with which a book is written, an
argument maintained, a negotiation carried on, etc. It always
something to be done, and the power of doing it. Capacity has
reference to the receptive powers. In its higher exercises it
supposes great quickness of apprehension and breadth of intellect,
with an uncommon aptitude for acquiring and retaining knowledge.
Hence it carries with it the idea of resources and undeveloped power.
Thus we speak of the extraordinary capacity of such men as Lord
Bacon, Blaise Pascal, and Edmund Burke. "Capacity," says H. Taylor,
"is requisite to devise, and ability to execute, a great enterprise."
The word abilities, in the plural, embraces both these qualities, and
denotes high mental endowments.

ABIME; ABYME
A*bime" or A*byme", n. Etym: [F. abîme. See Abysm.]

Defn: A abyss. [Obs.]

ABIOGENESIS
Ab`i*o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless
matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living
parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed
to biogenesis.
I shall call the . . . doctrine that living matter may be produced by
not living matter, the hypothesis of abiogenesis. Huxley, 1870.

ABIOGENETIC
Ab`i*o*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to abiogenesis. Ab`i*o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

ABIOGENIST
Ab`i*og"e*nist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: One who believes that life can be produced independently of
antecedent. Huxley.

ABIOGENOUS
Ab`i*og"e*nous, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Produced by spontaneous generation.

ABIOGENY
Ab`i*og"e*ny, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Abiogenesis.

ABIOLOGICAL
Ab`i*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. biological.]

Defn: Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.

ABIRRITANT
Ab*ir"ri*tant, n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine that diminishes irritation.

ABIRRITATE
Ab*ir"ri*tate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ab- + irritate.] (Med.)

Defn: To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.

ABIRRITATION
Ab*ir`ri*ta"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation;
debility; want of strength; asthenia.

ABIRRITATIVE
Ab*ir"ri*ta*tive, a. (Med.)

Defn: Characterized by abirritation or debility.

ABIT
A*bit",

Defn: 3d sing. pres. of Abide. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ABJECT
Ab"ject, a. Etym: [L. abjectus, p. p. of abjicere to throw away; ab +
jacere to throw. See Jet a shooting forth.]

1. Cast down; low-lying. [Obs.]
From the safe shore their floating carcasses And broken chariot
wheels; so thick bestrown Abject and lost lay these, covering the
flood. Milton.

2. Sunk to a law condition; down in spirit or hope; degraded;
servile; groveling; despicable; as, abject posture, fortune,
thoughts. "Base and abject flatterers." Addison. "An abject liar."
Macaulay.
And banish hence these abject, lowly dreams. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Mean; groveling; cringing; mean-spirited; slavish; ignoble;
worthless; vile; beggarly; contemptible; degraded.

ABJECT
Ab*ject", v. t. Etym: [From Abject, a.]

Defn: To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; to
debase. [Obs.] Donne.

ABJECT
Ab"ject, n.

Defn: A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a
castaway. [Obs.]
Shall these abjects, these victims, these outcasts, know any thing of
pleasure I. Taylor.

ABJECTEDNESS
Ab*ject"ed*ness, n.

Defn: A very abject or low condition; abjectness. [R.] Boyle.

ABJECTION
Ab*jec"tion, n. Etym: [F. abjection, L. abjectio.]

1. The act of bringing down or humbling. "The abjection of the king
and his realm." Joe.

2. The state of being rejected or cast out. [R.]
An adjection from the beatific regions where God, and his angels and
saints, dwell forever. Jer. Taylor.

3. A low or downcast state; meanness of spirit; abasement;
degradation.
That this should be termed baseness, abjection of mind, or servility,
is it credible Hooker.

ABJECTLY
Ab"ject*ly, adv.

Defn: Meanly; servilely.

ABJECTNESS
Ab"ject*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.
Grew.

ABJUDGE
Ab*judge", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ab- + judge, v. Cf. Abjudicate.]

Defn: To take away by judicial decision. [R.]

ABJUDICATE
Ab*ju"di*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. abjudicatus, p. p. of abjudicare; ab +
judicare. See Judge, and cf. Abjudge.]

Defn: To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge. [Obs.] Ash.

ABJUDICATION
Ab*ju`di*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Rejection by judicial sentence. [R.] Knowles.

ABJUGATE
Ab"ju*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. abjugatus, p. p. of abjugare.]

Defn: To unyoke. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABJUNCTIVE
Ab*junc"tive, a. Etym: [L. abjunctus, p. p. of abjungere; ab +
jungere to join.]

Defn: Exceptional. [R.]
It is this power which leads on from the accidental and abjunctive to
the universal. I. Taylor.

ABJURATION
Ab`ju*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. abjuratio: cf. F. abjuration.]

1. The act of abjuring or forswearing; a renunciation upon oath; as,
abjuration of the realm, a sworn banishment, an oath taken to leave
the country and never to return.

2. A solemn recantation or renunciation; as, an abjuration of heresy.
Oath of abjuration, an oath asserting the right of the present royal
family to the crown of England, and expressly abjuring allegiance to
the descendants of the Pretender. Brande & C.

ABJURATORY
Ab*ju"ra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing abjuration.

ABJURE
Ab*jure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abjured; p. pr. & vb. n. Abjuring.]
Etym: [L. abjurare to deny upon oath; ab + jurare to swear, fr. jus,
juris, right, law; cf. F. abjurer. See Jury.]

1. To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to abjure
allegiance to a prince. To abjure the realm, is to swear to abandon
it forever.

2. To renounce or reject with solemnity; to recant; to abandon
forever; to reject; repudiate; as, to abjure errors. "Magic I here
abjure." Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Renounce.

ABJURE
Ab*jure", v. i.

Defn: To renounce on oath. Bp. Burnet.

ABJUREMENT
Ab*jure"ment, n.

Defn: Renunciation. [R.]

ABJURER
Ab*jur"er, n.

Defn: One who abjures.

ABLACTATE
Ab*lac"tate, v. t. Etym: [L. ablactatus, p. p. of ablactare; ab +
lactare to suckle, fr. lac milk.]

Defn: To wean. [R.] Bailey.

ABLACTATION
Ab`lac*ta"tion. n.

1. The weaning of a child from the breast, or of young beasts from
their dam. Blount.

2. (Hort.)

Defn: The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting by
approach.

ABLAQUEATE
Ab*la"que*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. ablaqueatus, p. p. of. ablaqueare; fr.
ab + laqueus a noose.]

Defn: To lay bare, as the roots of a tree. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABLAQUEATION
Ab*la`que*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. ablaqueatio.]

Defn: The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose
them to the air and water. [Obs.] Evelyn.

ABLASTEMIC
Ab`las*tem"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Non-germinal.

ABLATION
Ab*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ablatio, fr. ablatus p. p. of auferre to
carry away; ab + latus, p. p. of ferre carry: cf. F. ablation. See
Tolerate.]

1. A carrying or taking away; removal. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Extirpation. Dunglison.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: Wearing away; superficial waste. Tyndall.

ABLATITIOUS
Ab`la*ti"tious, a.

Defn: Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force. Sir J. Herschel.

ABLATIVE
Ab"la*tive, a. Etym: [F. ablatif, ablative, L. ablativus fr. ablatus.
See Ablation.]

1. Taking away or removing. [Obs.]
Where the heart is forestalled with misopinion, ablative directions
are found needful to unteach error, ere we can learn truth. Bp. Hall.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some other
languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal,
separation, or taking away.

ABLATIVE
Ab"la*tive, (Gram.)

Defn: The ablative case. ablative absolute, a construction in Latin,
in which a noun in the ablative case has a participle (either
expressed or implied), agreeing with it in gender, number, and case,
both words forming a clause by themselves and being unconnected,
grammatically, with the rest of the sentence; as, Tarquinio regnante,
Pythagoras venit, i. e., Tarquinius reigning, Pythagoras came.

ABLAUT
Ab"laut, n. Etym: [Ger., off-sound; ab off + laut sound.] (Philol.)

Defn: The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating
a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation;
as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung. Earle.

ABLAZE
A*blaze", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + blaze.]

1. On fire; in a blaze, gleaming. Milman.
All ablaze with crimson and gold. Longfellow.

2. In a state of glowing excitement or ardent desire.
The young Cambridge democrats were all ablaze to assist Torrijos.
Carlyle.

ABLE
A"ble, a. [Comp. Abler; superl. Ablest.] Etym: [OF. habile, L.
habilis that may be easily held or managed, apt, skillful, fr. habere
to have, hold. Cf. Habile and see Habit.]

1. Fit; adapted; suitable. [Obs.]
A many man, to ben an abbot able. Chaucer.

2. Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or
resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of
qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent;
qualified; capable; as, an able workman, soldier, seaman, a man able
to work; a mind able to reason; a person able to be generous; able to
endure pain; able to play on a piano.

3. Specially: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental
powers; showing ability or skill; talented; clever; powerful; as, the
ablest man in the senate; an able speech.
No man wrote abler state papers. Macaulay.

4. (Law)

Defn: Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able to
inherit or devise property.

Note: Able for, is Scotticism.
"Hardly able for such a march." Robertson.

Syn.
 -- Competent; qualified; fitted; efficient; effective; capable;
skillful; clever; vigorous; powerful.

ABLE
A"ble, v. t. Etym: [See Able, a.] [Obs.]

1. To make able; to enable; to strengthen. Chaucer.

2. To vouch for. "I 'll able them." Shak.

ABLE; -ABLE; IBLE; -IBLE
*a*ble. Etym: [F. -able, L. -abilis.]

Defn: An adjective suffix now usually in a passive sense; able to be;
fit to be; expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense; as,
movable, able to be moved; amendable, able to be amended; blamable,
fit to be blamed; salable.

Note: The form ible is used in the same sense.

Note: It is difficult to say when we are not to use -able instead of
-ible. "Yet a rule may be laid down as to when we are to use it. To
all verbs, then, from the Anglo-Saxon, to all based on the
uncorrupted infinitival stems of Latin verbs of the first
conjugation, and to all substantives, whencesoever sprung, we annex -
able only." Fitzed. Hall.

ABLE-BODIED
A`ble-bod"ied, a.

Defn: Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust.
"Able-bodied vagrant." Froude.
 -- A`ble-bod"ied*ness, n..

ABLEGATE
Ab"le*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. ablegatus, p. p. of ablegare; ab + legare
to send with a commission. See Legate.]

Defn: To send abroad. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABLEGATE
Ab"le*gate, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A representative of the pope charged with important commissions
in foreign countries, one of his duties being to bring to a newly
named cardinal his insignia of office.

ABLEGATION
Ab`le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. ablegatio.]

Defn: The act of sending abroad. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

ABLE-MINDED
A`ble-mind"ed, a.

Defn: Having much intellectual power.
 -- A`ble-mind"ed*ness, n.

ABLENESS
A"ble*ness, n.

Defn: Ability of body or mind; force; vigor. [Obs. or R.]

ABLEPSY
Ab"lep*sy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Blindness. [R.] Urquhart.

ABLER
A"bler, a.,

Defn: comp. of Able.
 -- A"blest, a.,

Defn: superl. of Able.

ABLET; ABLEN
Ab"let, Ab"len Etym: [F. ablet, ablette, a dim. fr. LL. abula, for
albula, dim. of albus white. Cf. Abele.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.

ABLIGATE
Ab"li*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. ab + ligatus, p. p. of ligare to tie.]

Defn: To tie up so as to hinder from. [Obs.]

ABLIGURITION
Ab*lig`u*ri"tion, n. Etym: [L. abligurito, fr. abligurire to spend in
luxurious indulgence; ab + ligurire to be lickerish, dainty, fr.
lingere to lick.]

Defn: Prodigal expense for food. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABLINS
A"blins, adv. Etym: [See Able.]

Defn: Perhaps. [Scot.]

ABLOOM
A*bloom", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + bloom.]

Defn: In or into bloom; in a blooming state. Masson.

ABLUDE
Ab*lude", v. t. Etym: [L. abludere; ab + ludere to play.]

Defn: To be unlike; to differ. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ABLUENT
Ab"lu*ent, a. Etym: [L. abluens, p. pr. of. abluere to wash away; ab
+ luere (lavere, lavare). See Lave.]

Defn: Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A detergent.

ABLUSH
A*blush", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + blush.]

Defn: Blushing; ruddy.

ABLUTION
Ab*lu`tion, n. Etym: [L. ablutio, fr. abluere: cf. F. ablution. See
Abluent.]

1. The act of washing or cleansing; specifically, the washing of the
body, or some part of it, as a religious rite.

2. The water used in cleansing. "Cast the ablutions in the main."
Pope.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash the
priest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then,
as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunk
by the priest.

ABLUTIONARY
Ab*lu"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to ablution.

ABLUVION
Ab*lu"vi*on, n. Etym: [LL. abluvio. See Abluent.]

Defn: That which is washed off. [R.] Dwight.

ABLY
A"bly, adv.

Defn: In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned,
said.

-ABLY
-a*bly(#).

Defn: A suffix composed of -able and the adverbial suffix -ly; as,
favorably.

ABNEGATE
Ab"ne*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abnegated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abnegating.] Etym: [L. abnegatus,p. p. of abnegare; ab + negare to
deny. See Deny.]

Defn: To deny and reject; to abjure. Sir E. Sandys. Farrar.

ABNEGATION
Ab`ne*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. abnegatio: cf. F. abnégation.]

Defn: a denial; a renunciation.
With abnegation of God, of his honor, and of religion, they may
retain the friendship of the court. Knox.

ABNEGATIVE
Ab"ne*ga*tive, a. Etym: [L. abnegativus.]

Defn: Denying; renouncing; negative. [R.] Clarke.

ABNEGATOR
Ab"ne*ga`tor(#), n. [L.]

Defn: One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything. [R.]

ABNET
Ab"net, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.

ABNODATE
Ab"no*date, v. t. Etym: [L. abnodatus, p. p. of abnodare; ab + nodus
knot.]

Defn: To clear (tress) from knots. [R.] Blount.

ABNODATION
Ab`no*da"tion, n.

Defn: The act of cutting away the knots of trees. [R.] Crabb.

ABNORMAL
Ab*nor"mal, a. Etym: [For earlier anormal.F. anormal, LL. anormalus
for anomalus, Gr. abnormis. See Anomalous, Abnormous, Anormal.]

Defn: Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type;
anomalous; irregular. "That deviating from the type; anomalous;
irregular. " Froude.

ABNORMALITY
Ab`nor*mal"i*ty, n.; pl. Abnormalities.

1. The state or quality of being abnormal; variation; irregularity.
Darwin.

2. Something abnormal.

ABNORMALLY
Ab*nor"mal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abnormal manner; irregularly. Darwin.

ABNORMITY
Ab*nor"mi*ty, n.; pl. Abnormities. Etym: [LL. abnormitas. See
Abnormous.]

Defn: Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity.
"An abnormity . . . like a calf born with two heads." Mrs. Whitney.

ABNORMOUS
Ab*nor"mous, a. Etym: [L. abnormis; ab + norma rule. See Normal.]

Defn: Abnormal; irregular. Hallam.
A character of a more abnormous cast than his equally suspected
coadjutor. State Trials.

ABOARD
A*board", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- on, in + board.]

Defn: On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within
a railway car.

2. Alongside; as, close aboard. Naut.: To fall aboard of, to strike a
ship's side; to fall foul of.
 -- To haul the tacks aboard, to set the courses.
 -- To keep the land aboard, to hug the shore.
 -- To lay (a ship) aboard, to place one's own ship close alongside
of (a ship) for fighting.

ABOARD
A*board", prep.

1. On board of; as, to go aboard a ship.

2. Across; athwart. [Obs.]
Nor iron bands aboard The Pontic Sea by their huge navy cast.
Spenser.

ABODANCE
A*bod"ance, n. Etym: [See Bode.]

Defn: An omen; a portending. [Obs.]

ABODE
A*bode", pret.

Defn: of Abide.

ABODE
A*bode", n. Etym: [OE. abad, abood, fr. abiden to abide. See Abide.
For the change of vowel, cf. abode, imp. of abide.]

1. Act of waiting; delay. [Obs.] Shak.
And with her fled away without abode. Spenser.

2. Stay or continuance in a place; sojourn.
He waxeth at your abode here. Fielding.

3. Place of continuance, or where one dwells; abiding place;
residence; a dwelling; a habitation.
Come, let me lead you to our poor abode. Wordsworth.

ABODE
A*bode", n. Etym: [See Bode, v. t.]

Defn: An omen. [Obs.]
High-thundering Juno's husband stirs my spirit with true abodes.
Chapman.

ABODE
A*bode", v. t.

Defn: To bode; to foreshow. [Obs.] Shak.

ABODE
A*bode", v. i.

Defn: To be ominous. [Obs.] Dryden.

ABODEMENT
A*bode"ment, n.

Defn: A foreboding; an omen. [Obs.] "Abodements must not now affright
us." Shak.

ABODING
A*bod"ing, n.

Defn: A foreboding. [Obs.]

ABOLISH
A*bol"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abolished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abolishing.] Etym: [F. abolir, L. abolere, aboletum; ab + olere to
grow. Cf. Finish.]

1. To do away with wholly; to annul; to make void; -- said of laws,
customs, institutions, governments, etc.; as, to abolish slavery, to
abolish folly.

2. To put an end to, or destroy, as a physical objects; to wipe out.
[Archaic]
And with thy blood abolish so reproachful blot. Spenser.
His quick instinctive hand Caught at the hilt, as to abolish him.
Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- To Abolish, Repeal, Abrogate, Revoke, Annul, Nullify, Cancel.
These words have in common the idea of setting aside by some
overruling act. Abolish applies particularly to things of a permanent
nature, such as institutions, usages, customs, etc.; as, to abolish
monopolies, serfdom, slavery. Repeal describes the act by which the
legislature of a state sets aside a law which it had previously
enacted. Abrogate was originally applied to the repeal of a law by
the Roman people; and hence, when the power of making laws was
usurped by the emperors, the term was applied to their act of setting
aside the laws. Thus it came to express that act by which a sovereign
or an executive government sets aside laws, ordinances, regulations,
treaties, conventions, etc. Revoke denotes the act or recalling some
previous grant which conferred, privilege, etc.; as, to revoke a
decree, to revoke a power of attorney, a promise, etc. Thus, also, we
speak of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. Annul is used in a
more general sense, denoting simply to make void; as, to annul a
contract, to annul an agreement. Nullify is an old word revived in
this country, and applied to the setting of things aside either by
force or by total disregard; as, to nullify an act of Congress.
Cancel is to strike out or annul, by a deliberate exercise of power,
something which has operative force.

ABOLISHABLE
A*bol"ish*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abolissable.]

Defn: Capable of being abolished.

ABOLISHER
A*bol"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who abolishes.

ABOLISHMENT
A*bol"ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abolissement.]

Defn: The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction. Hooker.

ABOLITION
Ab"o*li"tion, n. Etym: [L. abolitio, fr. abolere: cf. F. abolition.
See Abolish.]

Defn: The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; an
annulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition of
slavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees,
ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.

Note: The application of this word to persons is now unusual or
obsolete

ABOLITIONISM
Ab`o*li"tion*ism, n.

Defn: The principles or measures of abolitionists. Wilberforce.

ABOLITIONIST
Ab`o*li"tion*ist, n.

Defn: A person who favors the abolition of any institution,
especially negro slavery.

ABOLITIONIZE
Ab`o*li`tion*ize, v. t.

Defn: To imbue with the principles of abolitionism. [R.] Bartlett.

ABOMA
A*bo"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).

ABOMASUM; ABOMASUS
Ab`o*ma"sum, Ab`o*ma"sus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. ab + omasum (a Celtic
word.] (Anat.)

Defn: The fourth or digestive stomach of a ruminant, which leads from
the third stomach omasum. See Ruminantia.

ABOMINABLE
A*bom"i*na*ble, a. Etym: [F. abominable. L. abominalis. See
Abominate.]

1. Worthy of, or causing, abhorrence, as a thing of evil omen; odious
in the utmost degree; very hateful; detestable; loathsome; execrable.

2. Excessive; large; -- used as an intensive. [Obs.]

Note: Juliana Berners . . . informs us that in her time [15th c.],
"abomynable syght of monkes" was elegant English for "a large company
of friars." G. P. Marsh.

ABOMINABLENESS
A*bom"i*na*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness. Bentley.

ABOMINABLY
A*bom"i*na*bly, adv.

Defn: In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably.

ABOMINATE
A*bom"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abominated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abominating.] Etym: [L. abominatus, p. p. or abominari to deprecate
as ominous, to abhor, to curse; ab + omen a foreboding. See Omen.]

Defn: To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, as
if with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.

Syn.
 -- To hate; abhor; loathe; detest. See Hate.

ABOMINATION
A*bom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [OE. abominacioun, -cion, F. abominatio.
See Abominate.]

1. The feeling of extreme disgust and hatred; abhorrence;
detestation; loathing; as, he holds tobacco in abomination.

2. That which is abominable; anything hateful, wicked, or shamefully
vile; an object or state that excites disgust and hatred; a hateful
or shameful vice; pollution.
Antony, most large in his abominations. Shak.

3. A cause of pollution or wickedness.

Syn.
 -- Detestation; loathing; abhorrence; disgust; aversion;
loathsomeness; odiousness. Sir W. Scott.

ABOON
A*boon", prep.

Defn: and adv. Above. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
Aboon the pass of Bally-Brough. Sir W. Scott.
The ceiling fair that rose aboon. J. R. Drake.

ABORAL
Ab*o"ral, a. Etym: [L. ab. + E. oral.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth.

ABORD
A*bord", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Manner of approaching or accosting; address. Chesterfield.

ABORD
A*bord", v. t. Etym: [F. aborder, à (L. ad) + bord rim, brim, or side
of a vessel. See Border, Board.]

Defn: To approach; to accost. [Obs.] Digby.

ABORIGINAL
Ab`o*rig"i*nal, a. Etym: [See Aborigines.]

1. First; original; indigenous; primitive; native; as, the aboriginal
tribes of America. "Mantled o'er with aboriginal turf." Wordsworth.

2. Of or pertaining to aborigines; as, a Hindoo of aboriginal blood.

ABORIGINAL
Ab`o*rig"i*nal, n.

1. An original inhabitant of any land; one of the aborigines.

2. An animal or a plant native to the region.
It may well be doubted whether this frog is an aboriginal of these
islands. Darwin.

ABORIGINALITY
Ab`o*rig`i*nal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being aboriginal. Westm. Rev.

ABORIGINALLY
Ab`o*rig"i*nal*ly, adv.

Defn: Primarily.

ABORIGINES
Ab`o*rig"i*nes, n. pl. Etym: [L. Aborigines; ab + origo, especially
the first inhabitants of Latium, those who originally (ab origine)
inhabited Latium or Italy. See Origin.]

1. The earliest known inhabitants of a country; native races.

2. The original fauna and flora of a geographical area

ABORSEMENT
A*borse"ment, n.

Defn: Abortment; abortion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ABORSIVE
A*bor"sive, a.

Defn: Abortive. [Obs.] Fuller.

ABORT
A*bort", v. i. Etym: [L. abortare, fr. abortus, p. p. of aboriri; ab
+ oriri to rise, to be born. See Orient.]

1. To miscarry; to bring forth young prematurely.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: To become checked in normal development, so as either to remain
rudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile.

ABORT
A*bort", n. Etym: [L. abortus, fr. aboriri.]

1. An untimely birth. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

2. An aborted offspring. [Obs.] Holland.

ABORTED
A*bort"ed, a.

1. Brought forth prematurely.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normal
development at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches.
The eyes of the cirripeds are more or less aborted in their mature
state. Owen.

ABORTICIDE
A*bor"ti*cide, n. Etym: [L. abortus + caedere to kill. See Abort.]
(Med.)

Defn: The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.

ABORTIFACIENT
A*bor`ti*fa"cient, a. Etym: [L. abortus (see Abort, v.) + faciens, p.
pr. of facere to make.]

Defn: Producing miscarriage.
 -- n.

Defn: A drug or an agent that causes premature delivery.

ABORTION
A*bor"tion, n. Etym: [L. abortio, fr. aboriri. See Abort.]

1. The act of giving premature birth; particularly, the expulsion of
the human fetus prematurely, or before it is capable of sustaining
life; miscarriage.

Note: It is sometimes used for the offense of procuring a premature
delivery, but strictly the early delivery is the abortion, "causing
or procuring abortion" is the full name of the offense. Abbott.

2. The immature product of an untimely birth.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains an
imperfect formation or is absorbed.

4. Any fruit or produce that does not come to maturity, or anything
which in its progress, before it is matured or perfect; a complete
failure; as, his attempt. proved an abortiori.

ABORTIONAL
A*bor"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive. Carlyle.

ABORTIONIST
A*bor"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who procures abortion or miscarriage.

ABORTIVE
A*bor"tive, a. Etym: [L. abortivus, fr. aboriri. See Abort, v.]

1. Produced by abortion; born prematurely; as, an abortive child.
[R.]

2. Made from the skin of a still-born animal; as, abortive vellum.
[Obs.]

3. Rendering fruitless or ineffectual. [Obs.] "Plunged in that
abortive gulf." Milton.

4. Coming to naught; failing in its effect; miscarrying; fruitless;
unsuccessful; as, an abortive attempt. "An abortive enterprise."
Prescott.

5. (Biol.)

Defn: Imperfectly formed or developed; rudimentary; sterile; as, an
abortive organ, stamen, ovule, etc.

6. (Med.)
(a) Causing abortion; as, abortive medicines. Parr.
(b) Cutting short; as, abortive treatment of typhoid fever.

ABORTIVE
A*bor"tive, n.

1. That which is born or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.
[Obs.] Shak.

2. A fruitless effort or issue. [Obs.]

3. A medicine to which is attributed the property of causing
abortion. Dunglison.

ABORTIVELY
A*bor"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly.

ABORTIVENESS
A*bor"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abortive.

ABORTMENT
A*bort"ment, n.

Defn: Abortion. [Obs.]

ABOUGHT
A*bought", imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Aby. [Obs.]

ABOUND
A*bound", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abounded; p. pr. & vb. n. Abounding.]
Etym: [OE. abounden, F. abonder, fr. L. abundare to overflow, abound;
ab + unda wave. Cf. Undulate.]

1. To be in great plenty; to be very prevalent; to be plentiful.
The wild boar which abounds in some parts of the continent of Europe.
Chambers.
Where sin abounded grace did much more abound. Rom. v. 20.

2. To be copiously supplied; -- followed by in or with. To abound in,
to posses in such abundance as to be characterized by.
 -- To abound with, to be filled with; to possess in great numbers.
Men abounding in natural courage. Macaulay.
A faithful man shall abound with blessings. Prov. xxviii. 20.
It abounds with cabinets of curiosities. Addison.

ABOUT
A*bout", prep. Etym: [OE. aboute, abouten, abuten; AS. abutan,
onbutan; on + butan, which is from be by + utan outward, from ut out.
See But, Out.]

1. Around; all round; on every side of. "Look about you." Shak. "Bind
them about thy neck." Prov. iii. 3.

2. In the immediate neighborhood of; in contiguity or proximity to;
near, as to place; by or on (one's person). "Have you much money
about you" Bulwer.

3. Over or upon different parts of; through or over in various
directions; here and there in; to and fro in; throughout.
Lampoons . . . were handed about the coffeehouses. Macaulay.
Roving still about the world. Milton.

4. Near; not far from; -- determining approximately time, size,
quantity. "To-morrow, about this time." Exod. ix. 18. "About my
stature." Shak.
He went out about the third hour. Matt. xx. 3.

Note: This use passes into the adverbial sense.

5. In concern with; engaged in; intent on.
I must be about my Father's business. Luke ii. 49.

6. Before a verbal noun or an infinitive:

Defn: On the point or verge of; going; in act of.
Paul was now aboutto open his mouth. Acts xviii. 14.

7. Concerning; with regard to; on account of; touching. "To treat
about thy ransom." Milton.
She must have her way about Sarah. Trollope.

ABOUT
A*bout", adv.

1. On all sides; around.
'Tis time to look about. Shak.

2. In circuit; circularly; by a circuitous way; around the outside;
as, a mile about, and a third of a mile across.

3. Here and there; around; in one place and another.
Wandering about from house to house. 1 Tim. v. 13.

4. Nearly; approximately; with close correspondence, in quality,
manner, degree, etc.; as, about as cold; about as high; -- also of
quantity, number, time. "There fell . . . about three thousand men."
Exod. xxii. 28.

5. To a reserved position; half round; in the opposite direction; on
the opposite tack; as, to face about; to turn one's self about. To
bring about, to cause to take place; to accomplish.
 -- To come about, to occur; to take place. See under Come.
 -- To go about, To set about, to undertake; to arrange; to prepare.
"Shall we set about some revels Shak.
 -- Round about, in every direction around.

ABOUT-SLEDGE
A*bout"-sledge", n.

Defn: The largest hammer used by smiths. Weale.

ABOVE
A*bove", prep. Etym: [OE. above, aboven, abuffe, AS. abufon; an (or
on) on + be by + ufan upward; cf. Goth. uf under. *199. See Over.]

1. In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper
surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath.
Fowl that may fly above the earth. Gen. i. 20.

2. Figuratively, higher than; superior to in any respect; surpassing;
beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things above
comprehension; above mean actions; conduct above reproach. "Thy worth
. . . is actions above my gifts." Marlowe.
I saw in the way a light from heaven above the brightness of the sun.
Acts xxxvi. 13.

3. Surpassing in number or quantity; more than; as, above a hundred.
(Passing into the adverbial sense. See Above, adv., 4.) above all,
before every other consideration; chiefly; in preference to other
things. Over and above, prep. or adv., besides; in addition to.

ABOVE
A*bove", adv.

1. In a higher place; overhead; into or from heaven; as, the clouds
above.

2. Earlier in order; higher in the same page; hence, in a foregoing
page. "That was said above." Dryden.

3. Higher in rank or power; as, he appealed to the court above.

4. More than; as, above five hundred were present.

Note: Above is often used elliptically as an adjective by omitting
the word mentioned, quoted, or the like; as, the above observations,
the above reference, the above articles.
 -- Above is also used substantively. "The waters that come down from
above." Josh. iii. 13. It is also used as the first part of a
compound in the sense of before, previously; as, above-cited, above-
described, above-mentioned, above-named, abovesaid, abovespecified,
above-written, above-given.

ABOVEBOARD
A*bove"board`, adv.

Defn: Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick,
concealment, or deception. "Fair and aboveboard." Burke.

Note: This expression is said by Johnson to have been borrowed from
gamesters, who, when they change their cards, put their hands under
the table.

ABOVE-CITED
A*bove"-cit`ed, a.

Defn: Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing.

ABOVEDECK
A*bove"deck`, a.

Defn: On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice. Smart.

ABOVE-MENTIONED; ABOVE-NAMED
A*bove"-men`tioned, A*bove"-named`(#), a.

Defn: Mentioned or named before; aforesaid.

ABOVESAID
A*bove"said`, a.

Defn: Mentioned or recited before.

ABOX
A*box", adv. & a. (Naut.)

Defn: Braced aback.

ABRA
A"bra, n. [Sp., a bay, valley, fissure.]

Defn: A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa; the mouth of a
cañon. [Southwestern U. S.]

ABRACADABRA
Ab`ra*ca*dab"ra, n. Etym: [L. Of unknown origin.]

Defn: A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in the
figure. Worn on an amulet it was supposed to ward off fever. At
present the word is used chiefly in jest to denote something without
meaning; jargon.

ABRADANT
Ab*ra"dant, n.

Defn: A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass,
etc.

ABRADE
Ab*rade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abraded; p. pr. & vb. n. Abrading.]
Etym: [L. abradere, abrasum, to scrape off; ab + radere to scrape.
See Rase, Raze.]

Defn: To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to
abrade rocks. Lyell.

ABRADE
A*brade", v. t.

Defn: Same as Abraid. [Obs.]

ABRAHAMIC
A`bra*ham"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamic
covenant.

ABRAHAMITIC; ABRAHAMITICAL
A`bra*ham*it"ic, A`bra*ham*it*ic*al(#), a.

Defn: Relating to the patriarch Abraham.

ABRAHAM-MAN; ABRAM-MAN
A"bra*ham-man`(#) or A"bram-man`(#), n. Etym: [Possibly in allusion
to the parable of the beggar Lazarus in Luke xvi. Murray (New Eng.
Dict. ).]

Defn: One of a set of vagabonds who formerly roamed through England,
feigning lunacy for the sake of obtaining alms. Nares. To sham
Abraham, to feign sickness. Goldsmith.

ABRAID
A*braid", v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. abraiden, to awake, draw (a sword),
AS. abredgan to shake, draw; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig.
meaning out) + bregdan to shake, throw. See Braid.]

Defn: To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

ABRANCHIAL
A*bran"chi*al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Abranchiate.

ABRANCHIATA
A*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of annelids, so called because the species composing it
have no special organs of respiration.

ABRANCHIATE
A*bran"chi*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without gills.

ABRASE
Ab*rase", a. Etym: [L. abrasus, p. p. of abradere. See Abrade.]

Defn: Rubbed smooth. [Obs.] "An abrase table." B. Jonson.

ABRASION
Ab*ra"sion, n. Etym: [L. abrasio, fr. abradere. See Abrade.]

1. The act of abrading, wearing, or rubbing off; the wearing away by
friction; as, the abrasion of coins.

2. The substance rubbed off. Berkeley.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A superficial excoriation, with loss of substance under the
form of small shreds. Dunglison.

ABRASIVE
Ab*ra"sive, a.

Defn: Producing abrasion. Ure.

ABRAUM; ABRAUM SALTS
A*braum" or A*braum" salts, n. Etym: [Ger., fr. abräumen to remove.]

Defn: A red ocher used to darken mahogany and for making chloride of
potassium.

ABRAXAS
A*brax"as, n. Etym: [A name adopted by the Egyptian Gnostic
Basilides, containing the Greek letters , , , , , , , which, as
numerals, amounted to 365. It was used to signify the supreme deity
as ruler of the 365 heavens of his system.]

Defn: A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among the
ancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved.

ABRAY
A*bray", v. Etym: [A false form from the preterit abraid, abrayde.]

Defn: See Abraid. [Obs.] Spenser.

ABREACTION
Ab`re*ac"tion, n. [Pref. ab-+ reaction, after G. Abreagirung.]
(Psychotherapy)

Defn: See Catharsis, below.

ABREAST
A*breast", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + breast.]

1. Side by side, with breasts in a line; as, "Two men could hardly
walk abreast." Macaulay.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with the
vessel's beam; -- with of.

3. Up to a certain level or line; equally advanced; as, to keep
abreast of [or with] the present state of science.

4. At the same time; simultaneously. [Obs.]
Abreast therewith began a convocation. Fuller.

ABREGGE
A*breg"ge, v. t.

Defn: See Abridge. [Obs.]

ABRENOUNCE
Ab`re*nounce", v. t. Etym: [L. abrenuntiare; ab + renuntiare. See
Renounce.]

Defn: To renounce. [Obs.] "They abrenounce and cast them off."
Latimer.

ABRENUNCIATION
Ab`re*nun`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. abrenuntiatio. See Abrenounce.]

Defn: Absolute renunciation or repudiation. [Obs.]
An abrenunciation of that truth which he so long had professed, and
still believed. Fuller.

ABREPTION
Ab*rep"tion, n. Etym: [L. abreptus, p. p. of abripere to snatch away;
ab + rapere to snatch.]

Defn: A snatching away. [Obs.]

ABREUVOIR
A`breu`voir", n. Etym: [F., a watering place.] (Masonry)

Defn: The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled with
mortar. Gwilt.

ABRICOCK
A"bri*cock, n.

Defn: See Apricot. [Obs.]

ABRIDGE
A*bridge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abridged; p. pr. & vb. n. Abridging.]
Etym: [OE. abregen, OF. abregier, F. abréger, fr. L. abbreviare; ad +
brevis short. See Brief and cf. Abbreviate.]

1. To make shorter; to shorten in duration; to lessen; to diminish;
to curtail; as, to abridge labor; to abridge power or rights. "The
bridegroom . . . abridged his visit." Smollett.
She retired herself to Sebaste, and abridged her train from state to
necessity. Fuller.

2. To shorten or contract by using fewer words, yet retaining the
sense; to epitomize; to condense; as, to abridge a history or
dictionary.

3. To deprive; to cut off; -- followed by of, and formerly by from;
as, to abridge one of his rights.

ABRIDGER
A*bridg"er, n.

Defn: One who abridges.

ABRIDGMENT
A*bridg"ment, n. Etym: [OE. abregement. See Abridge.]

1. The act abridging, or the state of being abridged; diminution;
lessening; reduction or deprivation; as, an abridgment of pleasures
or of expenses.

2. An epitome or compend, as of a book; a shortened or abridged form;
an abbreviation.
Ancient coins as abridgments of history. Addison.

3. That which abridges or cuts short; hence, an entertainment that
makes the time pass quickly. [Obs.]
What abridgment have you for this evening What mask What music Shak.

Syn.
 -- Abridgment, Compendium, Epitome, Abstract, Synopsis. An
abridgment is made by omitting the less important parts of some
larger work; as, an abridgment of a dictionary. A compendium is a
brief exhibition of a subject, or science, for common use; as, a
compendium of American literature. An epitome corresponds to a
compendium, and gives briefly the most material points of a subject;
as, an epitome of history. An abstract is a brief statement of a
thing in its main points. A synopsis is a bird's-eye view of a
subject, or work, in its several parts.

ABROACH
A*broach", v. t. Etym: [OE. abrochen, OF. abrochier. See Broach.]

Defn: To set abroach; to let out, as liquor; to broach; to tap.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

ABROACH
A*broach", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + broach.]

1. Broached; in a condition for letting out or yielding liquor, as a
cask which is tapped.
Hogsheads of ale were set abroach. Sir W. Scott.

2. Hence: In a state to be diffused or propagated; afoot; astir.
"Mischiefs that I set abroach." Shak.

ABROAD
A*broad", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + broad.]

1. At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads
its branches abroad.
The fox roams far abroad. Prior.

2. Without a certain confine; outside the house; away from one's
abode; as, to walk abroad.
I went to St. James', where another was preaching in the court
abroad. Evelyn.

3. Beyond the bounds of a country; in foreign countries; as, we have
broils at home and enemies abroad. "Another prince . . . was living
abroad." Macaulay.

4. Before the public at large; throughout society or the world; here
and there; widely.
He went out, and began to publish it much, and to blaze abroad the
matter. Mark i. 45.
To be abroad. (a) To be wide of the mark; to be at fault; as, you are
all abroad in your guess. (b) To be at a loss or nonplused.

ABROGABLE
Ab"ro*ga*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being abrogated.

ABROGATE
Ab"ro*gate, a. Etym: [L. abrogatus, p. p.]

Defn: Abrogated; abolished. [Obs.] Latimer.

ABROGATE
Ab"ro*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abrogated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abrogating.] Etym: [L. abrogatus, p. p. of abrogare; ab + rogare to
ask, require, propose. See Rogation.]

1. To annul by an authoritative act; to abolish by the authority of
the maker or his successor; to repeal; -- applied to the repeal of
laws, decrees, ordinances, the abolition of customs, etc.
Let us see whether the New Testament abrogates what we so frequently
see in the Old. South.
Whose laws, like those of the Medes and Persian, they can not alter
or abrogate. Burke.

2. To put an end to; to do away with. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To abolish; annul; do away; set aside; revoke; repeal; cancel;
annihilate. See Abolish.

ABROGATION
Ab`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. abrogatio, fr. abrogare: cf. F.
abrogation.]

Defn: The act of abrogating; repeal by authority. Hume.

ABROGATIVE
Ab"ro*ga*tive, a.

Defn: Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law.

ABROGATOR
Ab"ro*ga`tor, n.

Defn: One who repeals by authority.

ABROOD
A*brood", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + brood.]

Defn: In the act of brooding. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft.

ABROOK
A*brook", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + brook, v.]

Defn: To brook; to endure. [Obs.] Shak.

ABRUPT
Ab*rupt", a. Etym: [L. abruptus, p. p. of abrumpere to break off; ab
+ rumpere to break. See Rupture.]

1. Broken off; very steep, or craggy, as rocks, precipices, banks;
precipitous; steep; as, abrupt places. "Tumbling through ricks
abrupt," Thomson.

2. Without notice to prepare the mind for the event; sudden; hasty;
unceremonious. "The cause of your abrupt departure." Shak.

3. Having sudden transitions from one subject to another;
unconnected.
The abrupt style, which hath many breaches. B. Jonson.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Suddenly terminating, as if cut off. Gray.

Syn.
 -- Sudden; unexpected; hasty; rough; curt; unceremonious; rugged;
blunt; disconnected; broken.

ABRUPT
Ab*rupt", n. Etym: [L. abruptum.]

Defn: An abrupt place. [Poetic]
"Over the vast abrupt." Milton.

ABRUPT
Ab*rupt", v. t.

Defn: To tear off or asunder. [Obs.] "Till death abrupts them." Sir
T. Browne.

ABRUPTION
Ab*rup"tion, n. Etym: [L. abruptio, fr. abrumpere: cf. F. abruption.]

Defn: A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.
Woodward.

ABRUPTLY
Ab*rupt"ly, adv.

1. In an abrupt manner; without giving notice, or without the usual
forms; suddenly.

2. Precipitously. Abruptly pinnate (Bot.), pinnate without an odd
leaflet, or other appendage, at the end. Gray.

ABRUPTNESS
Ab*rupt"ness, n.

1. The state of being abrupt or broken; craggedness; ruggedness;
steepness.

2. Suddenness; unceremonious haste or vehemence; as, abruptness of
style or manner.

ABSCESS
Ab"scess, n.; pl. Abscesses. Etym: [L. abscessus a going away,
gathering of humors, abscess, fr. abscessus, p. p. of absedere to go
away; ab, abs + cedere to go off, retire. See Cede.] (Med.)

Defn: A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organ
of the body, the result of a morbid process. Cold abscess, an abscess
of slow formation, unattended with the pain and heat characteristic
of ordinary abscesses, and lasting for years without exhibiting any
tendency towards healing; a chronic abscess.

ABSCESSION
Ab*sces"sion, n. Etym: [L. abscessio a separation; fr. absedere. See
Abscess.]

Defn: A separating; removal; also, an abscess. [Obs.] Gauden.
Barrough.

ABSCIND
Ab*scind", v. t. Etym: [L. absindere; ab + scindere to rend, cut. See
Schism.]

Defn: To cut off. [R.] "Two syllables . . . abscinded from the rest."
Johnson.

ABSCISION
Ab*sci"sion, n. Etym: [L. abscisio.]

Defn: See Abscission.

ABSCISS
Ab"sciss, n.; pl. Abscisses.

Defn: See Abscissa.

ABSCISSA
Ab*scis"sa, n.; E. pl. Abscissas, L. pl. Abscissæ. Etym: [L., fem. of
abscissus, p. p. of absindere to cut of. See Abscind.] (Geom.)

Defn: One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of a
curve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coördinate axes.

Note: When referred to two intersecting axes, one of them called the
axis of abscissas, or of X, and the other the axis of ordinates, or
of Y, the abscissa of the point is the distance cut off from the axis
of X by a line drawn through it and parallel to the axis of Y. When a
point in space is referred to three axes having a common
intersection, the abscissa may be the distance measured parallel to
either of them, from the point to the plane of the other two axes.
Abscissas and ordinates taken together are called coördinates.
 -- OX or PY is the abscissa of the point P of the curve, OY or PX
its ordinate, the intersecting lines OX and OY being the axes of
abscissas and ordinates respectively, and the point O their origin.

ABSCISSION
Ab*scis"sion, n. Etym: [L. abscissio. See Abscind.]

1. The act or process of cutting off. "Not to be cured without the
abscission of a member." Jer. Taylor.

2. The state of being cut off. Sir T. Browne.

3. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech employed when a speaker having begun to say
a thing stops abruptly: thus, "He is a man of so much honor and
candor, and of such generosity -- but I need say no more."

ABSCOND
Ab*scond", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Absconded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Absconding.] Etym: [L. abscondere to hide; ab, abs + condere to lay
up; con + dare (only in comp.) to put. Cf. Do.]

1. To hide, withdraw, or be concealed.
The marmot absconds all winter. Ray.

2. To depart clandestinely; to steal off and secrete one's self; --
used especially of persons who withdraw to avoid a legal process; as,
an absconding debtor.
That very homesickness which, in regular armies, drives so many
recruits to abscond. Macaulay.

ABSCOND
Ab*scond", v. t.

Defn: To hide; to conceal. [Obs.] Bentley.

ABSCONDENCE
Ab*scond"ence, n.

Defn: Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding. [R.] Phillips.

ABSCONDER
Ab*scond"er, n.

Defn: One who absconds.

ABSENCE
Ab"sence, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. absentia. See Absent.]

1. A state of being absent or withdrawn from a place or from
companionship; -- opposed to presence.
Not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Phil.
ii. 12.

2. Want; destitution; withdrawal. "In the absence of conventional
law." Kent.

3. Inattention to things present; abstraction (of mind); as, absence
of mind. "Reflecting on the little absences and distractions of
mankind." Addison.
To conquer that abstraction which is called absence. Landor.

ABSENT
Ab"sent, a. Etym: [F., fr. absens, absentis, p. pr. of abesse to be
away from; ab + esse to be. Cf. Sooth.]

1. Being away from a place; withdrawn from a place; not present.
"Expecting absent friends." Shak.

2. Not existing; lacking; as, the part was rudimental or absent.

3. Inattentive to what is passing; absent-minded; preoccupied; as, an
absent air.
What is commonly called an absent man is commonly either a very weak
or a very affected man. Chesterfield.

Syn.
 -- Absent, Abstracted. These words both imply a want of attention to
surrounding objects. We speak of a man as absent when his thoughts
wander unconsciously from present scenes or topics of discourse; we
speak of him as abstracted when his mind (usually for a brief period)
is drawn off from present things by some weighty matter for
reflection. Absence of mind is usually the result of loose habits of
thought; abstraction commonly arises either from engrossing interests
and cares, or from unfortunate habits of association.

ABSENT
Ab*sent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Absented; p. pr. & vb. n. Absenting.]
Etym: [Cf. F. absenter.]

1. To take or withdraw (one's self) to such a distance as to prevent
intercourse; -- used with the reflexive pronoun.
If after due summons any member absents himself, he is to be fined.
Addison.

2. To withhold from being present. [Obs.] "Go; for thy stay, not
free, absents thee more." Milton.

ABSENTANEOUS
Ab`sen*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [LL. absentaneus. See absent]

Defn: Pertaining to absence. [Obs.]

ABSENTATION
Ab`sen*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of absenting one's self. Sir W. Hamilton.

ABSENTEE
Ab`sen*tee", n.

Defn: One who absents himself from his country, office, post, or
duty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country or
district than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irish
absentee. Macaulay.

ABSENTEEISM
Ab`sen*tee"ism, n.

Defn: The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice of
absenting one's self from the country or district where one's estate
is situated.

ABSENTER
Ab*sent"er, n.

Defn: One who absents one's self.

ABSENTLY
Ab"sent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an absent or abstracted manner.

ABSENTMENT
Ab*sent"ment, n.

Defn: The state of being absent; withdrawal. [R.] Barrow.

ABSENT-MINDED
Ab`sent-mind"ed(#), a.

Defn: Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied.
 -- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ness, n.
 -- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ly, adv.

ABSENTNESS
Ab"sent*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being absent-minded. H. Miller.

ABSEY-BOOK
Ab"sey-book`(#), n.

Defn: An A-B-C book; a primer. [Obs.] Shak.

ABSINTHATE
Ab"sin"thate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positive
radical.

ABSINTHE; ABSINTH
Ab"sinthe`, Ab"sinth`, n. Etym: [F. absinthe. See Absinthium.]

1. The plant absinthium or common wormwood.

2. A strong spirituous liqueur made from wormwood and brandy or
alcohol.

ABSINTHIAL
Ab*sin"thi*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian.

ABSINTHIAN
Ab*sin"thi*an, n.

Defn: Of the nature of wormwood. "Absinthian bitterness." T.
Randolph.

ABSINTHIATE
Ab"sin"thi*ate, v. t. Etym: [From L. absinthium: cf. L. absinthiatus,
a.]

Defn: To impregnate with wormwood.

ABSINTHIATED
Ab*sin"thi*a`ted, a.

Defn: Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine.

ABSINTHIC
Ab*sin"thic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it.

ABSINTHIN
Ab*sin"thin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). Watts.

ABSINTHISM
Ab"sin*thism, n.

Defn: The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use of
absinth.

ABSINTHIUM
Ab*sin"thi*um, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitter
plant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood.

ABSIS
Ab"sis, n.

Defn: See Apsis.

ABSIST
Ab*sist", v. i. Etym: [L. absistere, p. pr. absistens; ab + sistere
to stand, causal of stare.]

Defn: To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist. [Obs.] Raleigh.

ABSISTENCE
Ab*sist"ence, n.

Defn: A standing aloof. [Obs.]

ABSOLUTE
Ab"so*lute, a. Etym: [L. absolutus, p. p. of absolvere: cf. F.
absolu. See Absolve.]

1. Loosed from any limitation or condition; uncontrolled;
unrestricted; unconditional; as, absolute authority, monarchy,
sovereignty, an absolute promise or command; absolute power; an
absolute monarch.

2. Complete in itself; perfect; consummate; faultless; as, absolute
perfection; absolute beauty.
So absolute she seems, And in herself complete. Milton.

3. Viewed apart from modifying influences or without comparison with
other objects; actual; real; -- opposed to relative and comparative;
as, absolute motion; absolute time or space.

Note: Absolute rights and duties are such as pertain to man in a
state of nature as contradistinguished from relative rights and
duties, or such as pertain to him in his social relations.

4. Loosed from, or unconnected by, dependence on any other being;
self-existent; self-sufficing.

Note: In this sense God is called the Absolute by the Theist. The
term is also applied by the Pantheist to the universe, or the total
of all existence, as only capable of relations in its parts to each
other and to the whole, and as dependent for its existence and its
phenomena on its mutually depending forces and their laws.

5. Capable of being thought or conceived by itself alone;
unconditioned; non-relative.

Note: It is in dispute among philosopher whether the term, in this
sense, is not applied to a mere logical fiction or abstraction, or
whether the absolute, as thus defined, can be known, as a reality, by
the human intellect.
To Cusa we can indeed articulately trace, word and thing, the recent
philosophy of the absolute. Sir W. Hamilton.

6. Positive; clear; certain; not doubtful. [R.]
I am absolute 't was very Cloten. Shak.

7. Authoritative; peremptory. [R.]
The peddler stopped, and tapped her on the head, With absolute
forefinger, brown and ringed. Mrs. Browning.

8. (Chem.)

Defn: Pure; unmixed; as, absolute alcohol.

9. (Gram.)

Defn: Not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence in
government; as, the case absolute. See Ablative absolute, under
Ablative. Absolute curvature (Geom.), that curvature of a curve of
double curvature, which is measured in the osculating plane of the
curve.
 -- Absolute equation (Astron.), the sum of the optic and eccentric
equations.
 -- Absolute space (Physics), space considered without relation to
material limits or objects.
 -- Absolute terms. (Alg.), such as are known, or which do not
contain the unknown quantity. Davies & Peck.
 -- Absolute temperature (Physics), the temperature as measured on a
scale determined by certain general thermo-dynamic principles, and
reckoned from the absolute zero.
 -- Absolute zero (Physics), the be ginning, or zero point, in the
scale of absolute temperature. It is equivalent to -273º centigrade
or -459.4º Fahrenheit.

Syn.
 -- Positive; peremptory; certain; unconditional; unlimited;
unrestricted; unqualified; arbitrary; despotic; autocratic.

ABSOLUTE
Ab"so*lute, n. (Geom.)

Defn: In a plane, the two imaginary circular points at infinity; in
space of three dimensions, the imaginary circle at infinity.

ABSOLUTELY
Ab"so*lute*ly, adv.

Defn: In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly;
positively.

ABSOLUTENESS
Ab"so*lute*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being absolute; independence of everything
extraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality;
positiveness.

ABSOLUTION
Ab`so*lu"tion, n. Etym: [F. absolution, L. absolutio, fr. absolvere
to absolve. See Absolve.]

1. An absolving, or setting free from guilt, sin, or penalty;
forgiveness of an offense. "Government . . . granting absolution to
the nation." Froude.

2. (Civil Law)

Defn: An acquittal, or sentence of a judge declaring and accused
person innocent. [Obs.]

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The exercise of priestly jurisdiction in the sacrament of
penance, by which Catholics believe the sins of the truly penitent
are forgiven.

Note: In the English and other Protestant churches, this act regarded
as simply declaratory, not as imparting forgiveness.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: An absolving from ecclesiastical penalties, -- for example,
excommunication. P. Cyc.

5. The form of words by which a penitent is absolved. Shipley.

6. Delivery, in speech. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Absolution day (R. C. Ch.),
Tuesday before Easter.

ABSOLUTISM
Ab"so*lu`tism, n.

1. The state of being absolute; the system or doctrine of the
absolute; the principles or practice of absolute or arbitrary
government; despotism.
The element of absolutism and prelacy was controlling. Palfrey.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: Doctrine of absolute decrees. Ash.

ABSOLUTIST
Ab"so*lu`tist, n.

1. One who is in favor of an absolute or autocratic government.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: One who believes that it is possible to realize a cognition or
concept of the absolute. Sir. W. Hamilton.

ABSOLUTIST
Ab"so*lu`tist, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to absolutism; arbitrary; despotic; as,
absolutist principles.

ABSOLUTISTIC
Ab`so*lu*tis"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist.

ABSOLUTORY
Ab*sol"u*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. absolutorius, fr. absolvere to absolve.]

Defn: Serving to absolve; absolving. "An absolutory sentence."
Ayliffe.

ABSOLVABLE
Ab*solv"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be absolved.

ABSOLVATORY
Ab*solv"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Conferring absolution; absolutory.

ABSOLVE
Ab*solve" (#; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Absolved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Absolving.] Etym: [L. absolvere to set free, to absolve; ab + solvere
to loose. See Assoil, Solve.]

1. To set free, or release, as from some obligation, debt, or
responsibility, or from the consequences of guilt or such ties as it
would be sin or guilt to violate; to pronounce free; as, to absolve a
subject from his allegiance; to absolve an offender, which amounts to
an acquittal and remission of his punishment.
Halifax was absolved by a majority of fourteen. Macaulay.

2. To free from a penalty; to pardon; to remit (a sin); -- said of
the sin or guilt.
In his name I absolve your perjury. Gibbon.

3. To finish; to accomplish. [Obs.]
The work begun, how soon absolved. Milton.

4. To resolve or explain. [Obs.] "We shall not absolve the doubt."
Sir T. Browne.

Syn.
 -- To Absolve, Exonerate, Acquit. We speak of a man as absolved from
something that binds his conscience, or involves the charge of
wrongdoing; as, to absolve from allegiance or from the obligation of
an oath, or a promise. We speak of a person as exonerated, when he is
released from some burden which had rested upon him; as, to exonerate
from suspicion, to exonerate from blame or odium. It implies a purely
moral acquittal. We speak of a person as acquitted, when a decision
has been made in his favor with reference to a specific charge,
either by a jury or by disinterested persons; as, he was acquitted of
all participation in the crime.

ABSOLVENT
Ab*solv"ent, a. Etym: [L. absolvens, p. pr. of absolvere.]

Defn: Absolving. [R.] Carlyle.

ABSOLVENT
Ab*solv"ent, n.

Defn: An absolver. [R.] Hobbes.

ABSOLVER
Ab*solv"er, n.

Defn: One who absolves. Macaulay.

ABSONANT
Ab"so*nant, a. Etym: [L. ab + sonans, p. pr. of sonare to sound.]

Defn: Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant. "Absonant to
nature." Quarles.

ABSONOUS
Ab"so*nous, a. Etym: [L. absonus; ab + sonus sound.]

Defn: Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous. [Obs.] "Absonous to our
reason." Glanvill.

ABSORB
Ab*sorb", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Absorbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Absorbing.]
Etym: [L. absorbere; ab + sorbere to suck in, akin to Gr. absorber.]

1. To swallow up; to engulf; to overwhelm; to cause to disappear as
if by swallowing up; to use up; to include. "Dark oblivion soon
absorbs them all." Cowper.
The large cities absorb the wealth and fashion. W. Irving.

2. To suck up; to drink in; to imbibe; as a sponge or as the lacteals
of the body. Bacon.

3. To engross or engage wholly; to occupy fully; as, absorbed in
study or the pursuit of wealth.

4. To take up by cohesive, chemical, or any molecular action, as when
charcoal absorbs gases. So heat, light, and electricity are absorbed
or taken up in the substances into which they pass. Nichol. p. 8

Syn.
 -- To Absorb, Engross, Swallow up, Engulf. These words agree in one
general idea, that of completely taking up. They are chiefly used in
a figurative sense and may be distinguished by a reference to their
etymology. We speak of a person as absorbed (lit., drawn in,
swallowed up) in study or some other employment of the highest
interest. We speak of a person as ebgrossed (lit., seized upon in the
gross, or wholly) by something which occupies his whole time and
thoughts, as the acquisition of wealth, or the attainment of honor.
We speak of a person (under a stronger image) as swallowed up and
lost in that which completely occupies his thoughts and feelings, as
in grief at the death of a friend, or in the multiplied cares of
life. We speak of a person as engulfed in that which (like a gulf)
takes in all his hopes and interests; as, engulfed in misery, ruin,
etc.
That grave question which had begun to absorb the Christian mind --
the marriage of the clergy. Milman.
Too long hath love engrossed Britannia's stage, And sunk to softness
all our tragic rage. Tickell.
Should not the sad occasion swallow up My other cares Addison.
And in destruction's river Engulf and swallow those. Sir P. Sidney.

ABSORBABILITY
Ab*sorb`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being absorbable. Graham (Chemistry).

ABSORBABLE
Ab*sorb"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. absorbable.]

Defn: Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up. Kerr.

ABSORBEDLY
Ab*sorb"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged.

ABSORBENCY
Ab*sorb"en*cy, n.

Defn: Absorptiveness.

ABSORBENT
Ab*sorb"ent, a. Etym: [L. absorbens, p. pr. of absorbere.]

Defn: Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive. Absorbent ground (Paint.), a
ground prepared for a picture, chiefly with distemper, or water
colors, by which the oil is absorbed, and a brilliancy is imparted to
the colors.

ABSORBENT
Ab*sorb"ent, n.

1. Anything which absorbs.
The ocean, itself a bad absorbent of heat. Darwin.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Any substance which absorbs and neutralizes acid fluid in the
stomach and bowels, as magnesia, chalk, etc.; also a substance e. g.,
iodine) which acts on the absorbent vessels so as to reduce enlarged
and indurated parts.

3. pl. (Physiol.)

Defn: The vessels by which the processes of absorption are carried
on, as the lymphatics in animals, the extremities of the roots in
plants.

ABSORBER
Ab*sorb"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, absorbs.

ABSORBING
Ab*sorb"ing, a.

Defn: Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit.
 -- Ab*sorb"ing, adv.

ABSORBITION
Ab`sor*bi"tion, n.

Defn: Absorption. [Obs.]

ABSORPT
Ab*sorpt`, a. Etym: [L. absorptus, p. p.]

Defn: Absorbed. [Arcahic.] "Absorpt in care." Pope.

ABSORPTION
Ab*sorp"tion, n. Etym: [L. absorptio, fr. absorbere. See Absorb.]

1. The act or process of absorbing or sucking in anything, or of
being absorbed and made to disappear; as, the absorption of bodies in
a whirlpool, the absorption of a smaller tribe into a larger.

2. (Chem. & Physics)

Defn: An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as,
the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: In living organisms, the process by which the materials of
growth and nutrition are absorbed and conveyed to the tissues and
organs.

4. Entire engrossment or occupation of the mind; as, absorption in
some employment.

ABSORPTIVE
Ab*sorp"tive, a.

Defn: Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe. E.
Darwin.

ABSORPTIVENESS
Ab*sorp"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power.

ABSORPTIVITY
Ab`sorp*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: Absorptiveness.

ABSQUATULATE
Ab*squat"u*late, v. i.

Defn: To take one's self off; to decamp. [A jocular word. U. S.]

ABSQUE HOC
Abs"que hoc

Defn: . Etym: [L., without this.] (Law) The technical words of denial
used in traversing what has been alleged, and is repeated.

ABSTAIN
Ab*stain", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abstained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abstaining.] Etym: [OE. absteynen, abstenen, OF. astenir, abstenir,
F. abstenir, fr. L. abstinere, abstentum, v. t. & v. i., to keep
from; ab, abs + tenere to hold. See Tenable.]

Defn: To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily,
and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; --
with from.
Not a few abstained from voting. Macaulay.
Who abstains from meat that is not gaunt Shak.

Syn.
 -- To refrain; forbear; withhold; deny one's self; give up;
relinquish.

ABSTAIN
Ab*stain", v. t.

Defn: To hinder; to withhold.
Whether he abstain men from marrying. Milton.

ABSTAINER
Ab*stain"er, n.

Defn: One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use of
intoxicating liquors.

ABSTEMIOUS
Ab*ste"mi*ous, a. Etym: [L. abstemius; ab, abs + root of temetum
intoxicating drink.]

1. Abstaining from wine. [Orig. Latin sense.]
Under his special eye Abstemious I grew up and thrived amain. Milton.

2. Sparing in diet; refraining from a free use of food and strong
drinks; temperate; abstinent; sparing in the indulgence of the
appetite or passions.
Instances of longevity are chiefly among the abstemious. Arbuthnot.

3. Sparingly used; used with temperance or moderation; as, an
abstemious diet. Gibbon.

4. Marked by, or spent in, abstinence; as, an abstemious life. "One
abstemious day." Pope.

5. Promotive of abstemiousness. [R.]
Such is the virtue of the abstemious well. Dryden.

ABSTEMIOUSNESS
Ab*ste"mi*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in the
use of food and strong drinks. It expresses a greater degree of
abstinence than temperance.

ABSTENTION
Ab*sten"tion, a. Etym: [F. See Abstain.]

Defn: The act of abstaining; a holding aloof. Jer. Taylor.

ABSTENTIOUS
Ab*sten"tious, a.

Defn: Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining. Farrar.

ABSTERGE
Ab*sterge, v. t. Etym: [L. abstergere, abstersum; ab, abs + tergere
to wipe. Cf. F absterger.]

Defn: To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, to
purge. [R.] Quincy.

ABSTERGENT
Ab*ster"gent, a. Etym: [L. abstergens, p. pr. of abstergere.]

Defn: Serving to cleanse, detergent.

ABSTERGENT
Ab*ster"gent, n.

Defn: A substance used in cleansing; a detergent; as, soap is an
abstergent.

ABSTERSE
Ab*sterse", v. t.

Defn: To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ABSTERSION
Ab*ster"sion, n. Etym: [F. abstersion. See Absterge.]

Defn: Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging.
The task of ablution and abstersion being performed. Sir W. Scott.

ABSTERSIVE
Ab*ster"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abstersif. See Absterge.]

Defn: Cleansing; purging. Bacon.

ABSTERSIVE
Ab*ster"sive, n.

Defn: Something cleansing.
The strong abstersive of some heroic magistrate. Milton.

ABSTERSIVENESS
Ab*ster"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstersive. Fuller.

ABSTINENCE
Ab"sti*nence, n. Etym: [F. abstinence, L. abstinentia, fr. abstinere.
See Abstain.]

1. The act or practice of abstaining; voluntary forbearance of any
action, especially the refraining from an indulgence of appetite, or
from customary gratifications of animal or sensual propensities.
Specifically, the practice of abstaining from intoxicating beverages,
-- called also total abstinence.
The abstinence from a present pleasure that offers itself is a pain,
nay, oftentimes, a very great one. Locke.

2. The practice of self-denial by depriving one's self of certain
kinds of food or drink, especially of meat.
Penance, fasts, and abstinence, To punish bodies for the soul's
offense. Dryden.

ABSTINENCY
Ab"sti*nen*cy, n.

Defn: Abstinence. [R.]

ABSTINENT
Ab"sti*nent, a. Etym: [F. abstinent, L. abstinens, p. pr. of
abstinere. See Abstain.]

Defn: Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence of
appetite; abstemious; continent; temperate. Beau. & Fl.

ABSTINENT
Ab"sti*nent, n.

1. One who abstains.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect who appeared in France and Spain in the 3d
century.

ABSTINENTLY
Ab"sti*nent*ly, adv.

Defn: With abstinence.

ABSTORTED
Ab*stort"ed, a. Etym: [As if fr. abstort, fr. L. ab, abs + tortus, p.
p. of torquere to twist.]

Defn: Wrested away. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABSTRACT
Ab"stract` (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. abstractus, p. p. of abstrahere to
draw from, separate; ab, abs + trahere to draw. See Trace.]

1. Withdraw; separate. [Obs.]
The more abstract . . . we are from the body. Norris.

2. Considered apart from any application to a particular object;
separated from matter; exiting in the mind only; as, abstract truth,
abstract numbers. Hence: ideal; abstruse; difficult.

3. (Logic)
(a) Expressing a particular property of an object viewed apart from
the other properties which constitute it; -- opposed to Ant:
concrete; as, honesty is an abstract word. J. S. Mill.
(b) Resulting from the mental faculty of abstraction; general as
opposed to particular; as, "reptile" is an abstract or general name.
Locke.
A concrete name is a name which stands for a thing; an abstract name
which stands for an attribute of a thing. A practice has grown up in
more modern times, which, if not introduced by Locke, has gained
currency from his example, of applying the expression "abstract name"
to all names which are the result of abstraction and generalization,
and consequently to all general names, instead of confining it to the
names of attributes. J. S. Mill.

4. Abstracted; absent in mind. "Abstract, as in a trance." Milton. An
abstract idea (Metaph.), an idea separated from a complex object, or
from other ideas which naturally accompany it; as the solidity of
marble when contemplated apart from its color or figure.
 -- Abstract terms, those which express abstract ideas, as beauty,
whiteness, roundness, without regarding any object in which they
exist; or abstract terms are the names of orders, genera or species
of things, in which there is a combination of similar qualities.
 -- Abstract numbers (Math.), numbers used without application to
things, as 6, 8, 10; but when applied to any thing, as 6 feet, 10
men, they become concrete.
 -- Abstract or Pure mathematics. See Mathematics.

ABSTRACT
Ab*stract", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abstracted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Abstracting.] Etym: [See Abstract, a.]

1. To withdraw; to separate; to take away.
He was incapable of forming any opinion or resolution abstracted from
his own prejudices. Sir W. Scott.

2. To draw off in respect to interest or attention; as, his was
wholly abstracted by other objects.
The young stranger had been abstracted and silent. Blackw. Mag.

3. To separate, as ideas, by the operation of the mind; to consider
by itself; to contemplate separately, as a quality or attribute.
Whately.

4. To epitomize; to abridge. Franklin.

5. To take secretly or dishonestly; to purloin; as, to abstract goods
from a parcel, or money from a till.
Von Rosen had quietly abstracted the bearing-reins from the harness.
W. Black.

6. (Chem.)

Defn: To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of a
substance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this sense
extract is now more generally used.

ABSTRACT
Ab*stract", v. t.

Defn: To perform the process of abstraction. [R.]
I own myself able to abstract in one sense. Berkeley.

ABSTRACT
Ab"stract`, n. Etym: [See Abstract, a.]

1. That which comprises or concentrates in itself the essential
qualities of a larger thing or of several things. Specifically: A
summary or an epitome, as of a treatise or book, or of a statement; a
brief.
An abstract of every treatise he had read. Watts.
Man, the abstract Of all perfection, which the workmanship Of Heaven
hath modeled. Ford.

2. A state of separation from other things; as, to consider a subject
in the abstract, or apart from other associated things.

3. An abstract term.
The concretes "father" and "son" have, or might have, the abstracts
"paternity" and "filiety." J. S. Mill.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A powdered solid extract of a vegetable substance mixed with
sugar of milk in such proportion that one part of the abstract
represents two parts of the original substance. Abstract of title
(Law), an epitome of the evidences of ownership.

Syn.
 -- Abridgment; compendium; epitome; synopsis. See Abridgment.

ABSTRACTED
Ab*stract"ed, a.

1. Separated or disconnected; withdrawn; removed; apart.
The evil abstracted stood from his own evil. Milton.

2. Separated from matter; abstract; ideal. [Obs.]

3. Abstract; abstruse; difficult. [Obs.] Johnson.

4. Inattentive to surrounding objects; absent in mind. "An abstracted
scholar." Johnson.

ABSTRACTEDLY
Ab*stract"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind.

ABSTRACTEDNESS
Ab*stract"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being abstracted; abstract character.

ABSTRACTER
Ab*stract"er, n.

Defn: One who abstracts, or makes an abstract.

ABSTRACTION
Ab*strac"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. abstraction. See Abstract, a.]

1. The act of abstracting, separating, or withdrawing, or the state
of being withdrawn; withdrawal.
A wrongful abstraction of wealth from certain members of the
community. J. S. Mill.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: The act process of leaving out of consideration one or more
properties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis.
Thus, when the mind considers the form of a tree by itself, or the
color of the leaves as separate from their size or figure, the act is
called abstraction. So, also, when it considers whiteness, softness,
virtue, existence, as separate from any particular objects.

Note: Abstraction is necessary to classification, by which things are
arranged in genera and species. We separate in idea the qualities of
certain objects, which are of the same kind, from others which are
different, in each, and arrange the objects having the same
properties in a class, or collected body.
Abstraction is no positive act: it is simply the negative of
attention. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. An idea or notion of an abstract, or theoretical nature; as, to
fight for mere abstractions.

4. A separation from worldly objects; a recluse life; as, a hermit's
abstraction.

5. Absence or absorption of mind; inattention to present objects.

6. The taking surreptitiously for one's own use part of the property
of another; purloining. [Modern]

7. (Chem.)

Defn: A separation of volatile parts by the act of distillation.
Nicholson.

ABSTRACTIONAL
Ab*strac"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to abstraction.

ABSTRACTIONIST
Ab*strac"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An idealist. Emerson.

ABSTRACTITIOUS
Ab`strac*ti"tious, a.

Defn: Obtained from plants by distillation. [Obs.] Crabb.

ABSTRACTIVE
Ab*strac"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abstractif.]

Defn: Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature. "The
abstractive faculty." I. Taylor.

ABSTRACTIVELY
Ab*strac"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself. Feltham.

ABSTRACTIVENESS
Ab*strac"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.

ABSTRACTLY
Ab"stract`ly (#; 277), adv.

Defn: In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; by
itself; as, matter abstractly considered.

ABSTRACTNESS
Ab"stract`ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstract. "The abstractness of the ideas."
Locke.

ABSTRINGE
Ab*stringe", v. t. Etym: [L ab + stringere, strictum, to press
together.]

Defn: To unbind. [Obs.] Bailey.

ABSTRUDE
Ab*strude", v. t. Etym: [L. abstrudere. See Abstruse.]

Defn: To thrust away. [Obs.] Johnson.

ABSTRUSE
Ab*struse", a. Etym: [L. abstrusus, p. p. of abstrudere to thrust
away, conceal; ab, abs + trudere to thrust; cf. F. abstrus. See
Threat.]

1. Concealed or hidden out of the way. [Obs.]
The eternal eye whose sight discerns Abstrusest thoughts. Milton.

2. Remote from apprehension; difficult to be comprehended or
understood; recondite; as, abstruse learning.
Profound and abstruse topics. Milman.

ABSTRUSELY
Ab*struse"ly, adv.

Defn: In an abstruse manner.

ABSTRUSENESS
Ab*struse"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.
Boyle.

ABSTRUSION
Ab*stru"sion, n. Etym: [L. abstrusio. See Abstruse.]

Defn: The act of thrusting away. [R.] Ogilvie.

ABSTRUSITY
Ab*stru"si*ty, n.

Defn: Abstruseness; that which is abstruse. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

ABSUME
Ab*sume", v. t. Etym: [L. absumere, absumptum; ab + sumere to take.]

Defn: To consume gradually; to waste away. [Obs.] Boyle.

ABSUMPTION
Ab*sump"tion (#; 215), n. Etym: [L. absumptio. See Absume.]

Defn: Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

ABSURD
Ab*surd", a. Etym: [L. absurdus harsh-sounding; ab + (prob) a
derivative fr. a root svar to sound; not connected with surd: cf. F.
absurde. See Syringe.]

Defn: Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed
to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common
sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an
absurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream.
This proffer is absurd and reasonless. Shak.
'This phrase absurd to call a villain great. Pope.
p. 9

Syn.
 -- Foolish; irrational; ridiculous; preposterous; inconsistent;
incongruous.
 -- Absurd, Irrational, Foolish, Preposterous. Of these terms,
irrational is the weakest, denoting that which is plainly
inconsistent with the dictates of sound reason; as, an irrational
course of life. Foolish rises higher, and implies either a perversion
of that faculty, or an absolute weakness or fatuity of mind; as,
foolish enterprises. Absurd rises still higher, denoting that which
is plainly opposed to received notions of propriety and truth; as, an
absurd man, project, opinion, story, argument, etc. Preposterous
rises still higher, and supposes an absolute inversion in the order
of things; or, in plain terms, a "putting of the cart before the
horse;" as, a preposterous suggestion, preposterous conduct, a
preposterous regulation or law.

ABSURD
Ab*surd", n.

Defn: An absurdity. [Obs.] Pope.

ABSURDITY
Ab*surd"i*ty, n.; pl. Absurdities. Etym: [L. absurditas: cf. F.
absurdite.]

1. The quality of being absurd or inconsistent with obvious truth,
reason, or sound judgment. "The absurdity of the actual idea of an
infinite number." Locke.

2. That which is absurd; an absurd action; a logical contradiction.
His travels were full of absurdities. Johnson.

ABSURDLY
Ab*surd"ly, adv.

Defn: In an absurd manner.

ABSURDNESS
Ab*surd"ness, n.

Defn: Absurdity. [R.]

ABUNA
A*bu"na, n. Etym: [Eth. and Ar., our father.]

Defn: The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church.

ABUNDANCE
A*bun"dance, n. Etym: [OE. (h)abudaunce, abundance, F. abundance, F.
abondance, L. abundantia, fr. abundare. See Abound.]

Defn: An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty;
profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth: -- strictly
applicable to quantity only, but sometimes used of number.
It is lamentable to remember what abundance of noble blood hath been
shed with small benefit to the Christian state. Raleigh.

Syn.
 -- Exuberance; plenteousness; plenty; copiousness; overflow; riches;
affluence; wealth.
 -- Abundance, Plenty, Exuberance. These words rise upon each other
in expressing the idea of fullness. Plenty denotes a sufficiency to
supply every want; as, plenty of food, plenty of money, etc.
Abundance express more, and gives the idea of superfluity or excess;
as, abundance of riches, an abundance of wit and humor; often,
however, it only denotes plenty in a high degree. Exuberance rises
still higher, and implies a bursting forth on every side, producing
great superfluity or redundance; as, an exuberance of mirth, an
exuberance of animal spirits, etc.

ABUNDANT
A*bun"dant, a. Etym: [OE. (h)abundant, aboundant, F. abondant, fr. L.
abudans, p. pr. of abundare. See Abound.]

Defn: Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed by
in, rarely by with. "Abundant in goodness and truth." Exod. xxxiv. 6.
Abundant number (Math.), a number, the sum of whose aliquot parts
exceeds the number itself. Thus, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, the aliquot parts of
12, make the number 16. This is opposed to a deficient number, as 14,
whose aliquot parts are 1, 2, 7, the sum of which is 10; and to a
perfect number, which is equal to the sum of its aliquot parts, as 6,
whose aliquot parts are 1, 2., 3.

Syn.
 -- Ample; plentiful; copious; plenteous; exuberant; overflowing;
rich; teeming; profuse; bountiful; liberal. See Ample.

ABUNDANTLY
A*bun"dant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in large
measure.

ABURST
A*burst", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + burst.]

Defn: In a bursting condition.

ABUSABLE
A*bus"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be abused.

ABUSAGE
A*bus"age, n.

Defn: Abuse. [Obs.] Whately (1634).

ABUSE
A*buse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Abused; p. pr. & vb. n. Abusing.] Etym:
[F. abuser; L. abusus, p. p. of abuti to abuse, misuse; ab + uti to
use. See Use.]

1. To put to a wrong use; to misapply; to misuse; to put to a bad
use; to use for a wrong purpose or end; to pervert; as, to abuse
inherited gold; to make an excessive use of; as, to abuse one's
authority.
This principle (if one may so abuse the word) shoots rapidly into
popularity. Froude.

2. To use ill; to maltreat; to act injuriously to; to punish or to
tax excessively; to hurt; as, to abuse prisoners, to abuse one's
powers, one's patience.

3. To revile; to reproach coarsely; to disparage.
The . . . tellers of news abused the general. Macaulay.

4. To dishonor. "Shall flight abuse your name" Shak.

5. To violate; to ravish. Spenser.

6. To deceive; to impose on. [Obs.]
Their eyes red and staring, cozened with a moist cloud, and abused by
a double object. Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To maltreat; injure; revile; reproach; vilify; vituperate;
asperse; traduce; malign.

ABUSE
A*buse", n. Etym: [F. abus, L. abusus, fr. abuti. See Abuse, v. t.]

1. Improper treatment or use; application to a wrong or bad purpose;
misuse; as, an abuse of our natural powers; an abuse of civil rights,
or of privileges or advantages; an abuse of language.
Liberty may be endangered by the abuses of liberty, as well as by the
abuses of power. Madison.

2. Physical ill treatment; injury. "Rejoice . . . at the abuse of
Falstaff." Shak.

3. A corrupt practice or custom; offense; crime; fault; as, the
abuses in the civil service.
Abuse after disappeared without a struggle.. Macaulay.

4. Vituperative words; coarse, insulting speech; abusive language;
virulent condemnation; reviling.
The two parties, after exchanging a good deal of abuse, came to
blows. Macaulay.

5. Violation; rape; as, abuse of a female child. [Obs.]
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing Shak.
Abuse of distress (Law), a wrongful using of an animal or chattel
distrained, by the distrainer.

Syn.
 -- Invective; contumely; reproach; scurrility; insult; opprobrium.
 -- Abuse, Invective. Abuse is generally prompted by anger, and
vented in harsh and unseemly words. It is more personal and coarse
than invective. Abuse generally takes place in private quarrels;
invective in writing or public discussions. Invective may be conveyed
in refined language and dictated by indignation against what is
blameworthy. C. J. Smith.

ABUSEFUL
A*buse"ful, a.

Defn: Full of abuse; abusive. [R.] "Abuseful names." Bp. Barlow.

ABUSER
A*bus"er, n.

Defn: One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb].

ABUSION
A*bu"sion, n. Etym: [OE. abusion, abusioun, OF. abusion, fr. L.
abusio misuse of words, f. abuti. See Abuse, v. t.]

Defn: Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception;
cheat. Chaucer.

ABUSIVE
A*bu"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. abusif, fr. L. abusivus.]

1. Wrongly used; perverted; misapplied.
I am . . . necessitated to use the word Parliament improperly,
according to the abusive acceptation thereof. Fuller.

2. Given to misusing; also, full of abuses. [Archaic] "The abusive
prerogatives of his see." Hallam.

3. Practicing abuse; prone to ill treat by coarse, insulting words or
by other ill usage; as, an abusive author; an abusive fellow.

4. Containing abuse, or serving as the instrument of abuse;
vituperative; reproachful; scurrilous. "An abusive lampoon." Johnson.

5. Tending to deceive; fraudulent; cheating. [Obs.] "An abusive
treaty." Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Reproachful; scurrilous; opprobrious; insolent; insulting;
injurious; offensive; reviling.

ABUSIVELY
A*bu"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.

ABUSIVENESS
A*bu"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violence
to the person.
Pick out mirth, like stones out of thy ground, Profaneness,
filthiness, abusiveness. Herbert.

ABUT
A*but", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Abutted; p. pr. & vb. n. Abutting.] Etym:
[OF. abouter, aboter; cf. F. aboutir, and also abuter; a (L. ad) +
OF. boter, buter, to push: cf. F. bout end, and but end, purpose.]

Defn: To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet;
-- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road.

ABUTILON
A*bu"ti*lon, n. Etym: [Ar. aubutilun.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in the
torrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indian
mallow.

ABUTMENT
A*but"ment, n.

1. State of abutting.

2. That on or against which a body abuts or presses; as
(a) (Arch.) The solid part of a pier or wall, etc., which receives
the thrust or lateral pressure of an arch, vault, or strut. Gwilt.
(b) (mech.) A fixed point or surface from which resistance or
reaction is obtained, as the cylinder head of a steam engine, the
fulcrum of a lever, etc.
(c) In breech-loading firearms, the block behind the barrel which
receives the pressure due to recoil.

ABUTTAL
A*but"tal, n.

Defn: The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; a
headland. Spelman.

ABUTTER
A*but"ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of a
contiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river.

ABUZZ
A*buzz", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + buzz.]

Defn: In a buzz; buzzing. [Colloq.] Dickens.

ABY; ABYE
A*by", A*bye", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Abought.] Etym: [AS. abycgan
to pay for; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning out) +
bycgan to buy. See Buy, and cf. Abide.]

1. To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to
give satisfaction. [Obs.]
Lest to thy peril thou aby it dear. Shak.

2. To endure; to abide. [Obs.]
But nought that wanteth rest can long aby. Spenser.

ABYSM
A*bysm", n. Etym: [OF. abisme; F. abime, LL. abyssimus, a superl. of
L. abyssus; Gr. Abyss.]

Defn: An abyss; a gulf. "The abysm of hell." Shak.

ABYSMAL
A*bys"mal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending;
profound.
Geology gives one the same abysmal extent of time that astronomy does
of space. Carlyle.

ABYSMALLY
A*bys"mal*ly, adv.

Defn: To a fathomless depth; profoundly. "Abysmally ignorant." G.
Eliot.

ABYSS
A*byss", n. Etym: [L. abyssus a bottomless gulf, fr. Gr.

1. A bottomless or unfathomed depth, gulf, or chasm; hence, any deep,
immeasurable, and, specifically, hell, or the bottomless pit.
Ye powers and spirits of this nethermost abyss. Milton.
The throne is darkness, in the abyss of light. Dryden.

2. Infinite time; a vast intellectual or moral depth.
The abysses of metaphysical theology. Macaulay.
In unfathomable abysses of disgrace. Burke.

3. (Her.)

Defn: The center of an escutcheon.

Note: This word, in its leading uses, is associated with the
cosmological notions of the Hebrews, having reference to a supposed
illimitable mass of waters from which our earth sprung, and beneath
whose profound depths the wicked were punished. Encyc. Brit.

ABYSSAL
A*byss"al, a. Etym: [Cf. Abysmal.]

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable. Abyssal
zone (Phys. Geog.), one of the belts or zones into which Sir E.
Forbes divides the bottom of the sea in describing its plants,
animals, etc. It is the one furthest from the shore, embracing all
beyond one hundred fathoms deep. Hence, abyssal animals, plants, etc.

ABYSSINIAN
Ab`ys*sin"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Abyssinia. Abyssinian gold, an alloy of
90.74 parts of copper and 8.33 parts of zink. Ure.

ABYSSINIAN
Ab`ys*sin"i*an, n.

1. A native of Abyssinia.

2. A member of the Abyssinian Church.

ACACIA
A*ca"ci*a, n. (Antiq.)

Defn: A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors,
as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals.

ACACIA
A*ca"cia, n.; pl. E. Acacias, L. Acaciæ. Etym: [L. from Gr. ak to be
sharp. See Acute.]

1. A genus of leguminous trees and shrubs. Nearly 300 species are
Australian or Polynesian, and have terete or vertically compressed
leaf stalks, instead of the bipinnate leaves of the much fewer
species of America, Africa, etc. Very few are found in temperate
climates.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The inspissated juice of several species of acacia; -- called
also gum acacia, and gum arabic.

ACACIN; ACACINE
Ac"a*cin, Ac"a*cine, n.

Defn: Gum arabic.

ACADEME
Ac`a*deme", n. Etym: [L. academia. See Academy.]

Defn: An academy. [Poetic] Shak.

ACADEMIAL
Ac`a*de"mi*al, a.

Defn: Academic. [R.]

ACADEMIAN
Ac`a*de"mi*an, n.

Defn: A member of an academy, university, or college.

ACADEMIC
Ac`a*dem"ic, n.

1. One holding the philosophy of Socrates and Plato; a Platonist.
Hume.

2. A member of an academy, college, or university; an academician.

ACADEMIC; ACADEMICAL
Ac`a*dem"ic, Ac`a*dem"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. academicus: cf. F.
académigue. See Academy.]

1. Belonging to the school or philosophy of Plato; as, the Academic
sect or philosophy.

2. Belonging to an academy or other higher institution of learning;
scholarly; literary or classical, in distinction from scientific.
"Academic courses." Warburton. "Academical study." Berkeley.

ACADEMICALLY
Ac`a*dem`ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an academical manner.

ACADEMICALS
Ac`a*dem"ic*als, n. pl.

Defn: The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges and
universities.

ACADEMICIAN
Ac`a*de*mi"cian (#; 277), n. Etym: [F. académicien. See Academy.]

1. A member of an academy, or society for promoting science, art, or
literature, as of the French Academy, or the Royal Academy of arts.

2. A collegian. [R.] Chesterfield.

ACADEMICISM
Ac`a*dem"i*cism, n.

1. A tenet of the Academic philosophy.

2. A mannerism or mode peculiar to an academy.

ACADEMISM
A*cad"e*mism, n.

Defn: The doctrines of the Academic philosophy. [Obs.] Baxter.

ACADEMIST
A*cad"e*mist, n. Etym: [F. academiste.]

1. An Academic philosopher.

2. An academician. [Obs.] Ray.

ACADEMY
A*cad"e*my, n.; pl. Academies. Etym: [F. académie, L. academia. Cf.
Academe.]

1. A garden or grove near Athens (so named from the hero Academus),
where Plato and his followers held their philosophical conferences;
hence, the school of philosophy of which Plato was head.

2. An institution for the study of higher learning; a college or a
university. Popularly, a school, or seminary of learning, holding a
rank between a college and a common school.

3. A place of training; a school. "Academies of fanaticism." Hume.

4. A society of learned men united for the advancement of the arts
and sciences, and literature, or some particular art or science; as,
the French Academy; the American Academy of Arts and Sciences;
academies of literature and philology.

5. A school or place of training in which some special art is taught;
as, the military academy at West Point; a riding academy; the Academy
of Music. Academy figure (Paint.), a drawing usually half life-size,
in crayon or pencil, after a nude model.

ACADIAN
A*ca"di*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia. "Acadian farmers."
Longfellow.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Acadie. Acadian epoch (Geol.), an epoch at the
beginning of the American paleozoic time, and including the oldest
American rocks known to be fossiliferous. See Geology.
 -- Acadian owl (Zoöl.), a small North American owl (Nyctule
Acadica); the saw-whet.

ACAJOU
Ac"a*jou, n. Etym: [F. See Cashew.] (Bot.)
(a) The cashew tree; also, its fruit. See Cashew.
(b) The mahogany tree; also, its timber.

ACALEPH; ACALEPHAN
Ac"a*leph, Ac`a*le"phan n.; pl. Acalephs, Acalephans. Etym: [See
Acalephæ.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Acalephæ.

ACALEPHAE
Ac`a*le"phæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

Defn: A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusæ or jellyfishes,
and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess.
Sometimes called sea nettles.

ACALEPHOID
Ac`ale"phoid, a. Etym: [Acaleph + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to or resembling the Acalephæ or jellyfishes.

ACALYCINE; ACALYSINOUS
A*cal"y*cine, Ac`a*lys`i*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Without a calyx, or outer floral envelope.

ACANTH
A*canth", n.

Defn: Same as Acanthus.

ACANTHA
A*can"tha, n. Etym: [Gr. Acute.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A prickle.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spine or prickly fin.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The vertebral column; the spinous process of a vertebra.
Dunglison.

ACANTHACEOUS
Ac"an*tha"ceous, a.

1. Armed with prickles, as a plant.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which
the acanthus is the type.

ACANTHINE
A*can"thine, a. Etym: [L. acanthinus, Gr. Acanthus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus.

ACANTHOCARPOUS
A*can`tho*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the fruit covered with spines.

ACANTHOCEPHALA
A*can`tho*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed with
recurved spines.

ACANTHOCEPHALOUS
A*can`tho*ceph"a*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala.

ACANTHOPHOROUS
Ac`an*thoph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Spine-bearing. Gray.

ACANTHOPODIOUS
A*can`tho*po"di*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having spinous petioles.

ACANTHOPTERI
Ac`an*thop"ter*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. See
Acanthopterygii.

ACANTHOPTEROUS
Ac`an*thop"ter*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Spiny-winged.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Acanthopterygious.

ACANTHOPTERYGIAN
Ac`an*thop`ter*yg"i*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as the
perch.
 -- n.

Defn: A spiny-finned fish.

ACANTHOPTERYGII
Ac`an*thop`ter*yg"i*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal,
ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch.

ACANTHOPTERYGIOUS
Ac`an*thop`ter*yg"i*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny-
finned.

ACANTHUS
A*can"thus, n.; pl. E. Acanthuses, L. Acanthi. Etym: [L., from Gr.
Acantha.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south of
Europe, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament resembling the foliage or leaves of the acanthus
(Acanthus spinosus); -- used in the capitals of the Corinthian and
Composite orders.

A CAPPELLA
A cap*pel"la. Etym: [It. See Chapel.] (Mus.)
(a) In church or chapel style; -- said of compositions sung in the
old church style, without instrumental accompaniment; as, a mass a
capella, i. e., a mass purely vocal.
(b) A time indication, equivalent to alla breve.

ACAPSULAR
A*cap"su*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + capsular.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no capsule.

ACARDIAC
A*car"di*ac, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus.

ACARIDAN
A*car"i*dan, n. Etym: [See Acarus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks.

ACARINA
Ac`a*ri"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks. Many
species are parasitic, and cause diseases like the itch and mange.

ACARINE
Ac"a*rine, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases.

ACAROID
Ac"a*roid, a. Etym: [NL., acarus a mite + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Shaped like or resembling a mite.

ACARPELLOUS
Ac`ar*pel"lous, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + carpel.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no carpels.

ACARPOUS
A*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Not producing fruit; unfruitful.

ACARUS
Ac"a*rus, n.; pl. Acari. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus including many species of small mites.

ACATALECTIC
A*cat`a*lec"tic, a. Etym: [L. acatalecticus, Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse.
 -- n.

Defn: A verse which has the complete number of feet and syllables.

ACATALEPSY
A*cat"a*lep`sy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancient
Skeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts to
certainty, but only to probability.

ACATALEPTIC
A*cat`a*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible.

ACATER
A*ca"ter, n.

Defn: See Caterer. [Obs.]

ACATES
A*cates", n. pl.

Defn: See Cates. [Obs.]

ACAUDATE
A*cau"date, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + caudate.]

Defn: Tailless.

ACAULESCENT
Ac`au*les"cent, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + caulescent.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed in
the ground. Gray.

ACAULINE
A*cau"line, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + cauline.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Acaulescent.

ACAULOSE; ACAULOUS
A*cau"lose, A*cau"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. caulis stalk. See Cole.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Acaulescent.

ACCADIAN
Ac*ca"di*an, a. Etym: [From the city Accad. See Gen. x. 10.]

Defn: Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia before
the Assyrian conquest.
 -- Ac*ca"di*an, n., Ac"cad, n. Sayce.

ACCEDE
Ac*cede", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Acceded; p. pr. & vb. n. Acceding.]
Etym: [L. accedere to approach, accede; ad + cedere to move, yield:
cf. F. accédere. See Cede.]

1. To approach; to come forward; -- opposed to recede. [Obs.] T.
Gale.

2. To enter upon an office or dignity; to attain.
Edward IV., who had acceded to the throne in the year 1461. T.
Warton.
If Frederick had acceded to the supreme power. Morley.

3. To become a party by associating one's self with others; to give
one's adhesion. Hence, to agree or assent to a proposal or a view;
as, he acceded to my request.
The treaty of Hanover in 1725 . . . to which the Dutch afterwards
acceded. Chesterfield.

Syn.
 -- To agree; assent; consent; comply; acquiesce; concur.

ACCEDENCE
Ac*ced"ence, n.

Defn: The act of acceding.

ACCEDER
Ac*ced"er, n.

Defn: One who accedes.

ACCELERANDO
Ac*cel`er*an"do, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Gradually accelerating the movement.

ACCELERATE
Ac*cel"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accelerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accelerating.] Etym: [L. acceleratus, p. p. of accelerare; ad +
celerare to hasten; celer quick. See Celerity.]

1. To cause to move faster; to quicken the motion of; to add to the
speed of; -- opposed to retard.

2. To quicken the natural or ordinary progression or process of; as,
to accelerate the growth of a plant, the increase of wealth, etc.

3. To hasten, as the occurence of an event; as, to accelerate our
departure. Accelerated motion (Mech.), motion with a continually
increasing velocity.
 -- Accelerating force, the force which causes accelerated motion.
Nichol.

Syn.
 -- To hasten; expedite; quicken; dispatch; forward; advance;
further.

ACCELERATION
Ac*cel`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. acceleratio: cf. F. accélération.]

Defn: The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated;
increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward the
earth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation.
A period of social improvement, or of intellectual advancement,
contains within itself a principle of acceleration. I. Taylor.
(Astr. & Physics.) Acceleration of the moon, the increase of the
moon's mean motion in its orbit, in consequence of which its period
of revolution is now shorter than in ancient times.
 -- Acceleration and retardation of the tides. See Priming of the
tides, under Priming.
 -- Diurnal acceleration of the fixed stars, the amount by which
their apparent diurnal motion exceeds that of the sun, in consequence
of which they daily come to the meridian of any place about three
minutes fifty-six seconds of solar time earlier than on the day
preceding.
 -- Acceleration of the planets, the increasing velocity of their
motion, in proceeding from the apogee to the perigee of their orbits.

ACCELERATIVE
Ac*cel"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening. Reid.

ACCELERATOR
Ac*cel"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, accelerates. Also as an adj.; as,
accelerator nerves.

ACCELERATORY
Ac*cel"er*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Accelerative.

ACCELEROGRAPH
Ac*cel"er*o*graph, n. Etym: [Accelerate + -graph.] (Mil.)

Defn: An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns,
etc.

ACCELEROMETER
Ac*cel`er*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Accelerate + -meter.]

Defn: An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder.

ACCEND
Ac*cend", v. t. Etym: [L. accendere, accensum, to kindle; ad +
candère to kindle (only in compounds); rel. to candere to be white,
to gleam. See Candle.]

Defn: To set on fire; to kindle. [Obs.] Fotherby.

ACCENDIBILITY
Ac*cend`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed;
inflammability.

ACCENDIBLE
Ac*cend"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable.
Ure.

ACCENSION
Ac*cen"sion, n.

Defn: The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition.
Locke.

ACCENSOR
Ac*cen"sor, n. Etym: [LL., from p. p. accensus. See Accend.] (R. C.
Ch.)

Defn: One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.

ACCENT
Ac"cent`, n. Etym: [F. accent, L. accentus; ad + cantus a singing,
canere to sing. See Cant.]

1. A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some
particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the
others.

Note: Many English words have two accents, the primary and the
secondary; the primary being uttered with a greater stress of voice
than the secondary; as in as'pira''tion, where the chief stress is on
the third syllable, and a slighter stress on the first. Some words,
as an'tiap'o-plec''tic, in-com'pre-hen'si-bil''i-ty, have two
secondary accents. See Guide to Pron., tt 30-46.

2. A mark or character used in writing, and serving to regulate the
pronunciation; esp.: (a) a mark to indicate the nature and place of
the spoken accent; (b) a mark to indicate the quality of sound of the
vowel marked; as, the French accents.

Note: In the ancient Greek the acute accent (') meant a raised tone
or pitch, the grave (`), the level tone or simply the negation of
accent, the circumflex ( ~ or ^) a tone raised and then depressed. In
works on elocution, the first is often used to denote the rising
inflection of the voice; the second, the falling inflection; and the
third (^), the compound or waving inflection. In dictionaries,
spelling books, and the like, the acute accent is used to designate
the syllable which receives the chief stress of voice.

3. Modulation of the voice in speaking; manner of speaking or
pronouncing; peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice;
tone; as, a foreign accent; a French or a German accent. "Beguiled
you in a plain accent." Shak. "A perfect accent." Thackeray.
The tender accent of a woman's cry. Prior.

4. A word; a significant tone; (pl.) expressions in general; speech.
Winds! on your wings to Heaven her accents bear, Such words as Heaven
alone is fit to hear. Dryden.

5. (Pros.)

Defn: Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.

6. (Mus.)
(a) A regularly recurring stress upon the tone to mark the beginning,
and, more feebly, the third part of the measure.
(b) A special emphasis of a tone, even in the weaker part of the
measure.
(c) The rythmical accent, which marks phrases and sections of a
period.
(d) The expressive emphasis and shading of a passage. J. S. Dwight.

7. (Math.)
(a) A mark placed at the right hand of a letter, and a little above
it, to distinguish magnitudes of a similar kind expressed by the same
letter, but differing in value, as y', y''.
(b) (Trigon.) A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating
minutes of a degree, seconds, etc.; as, 12'27'', i. e., twelve
minutes twenty seven seconds.
(c) (Engin.) A mark used to denote feet and inches; as, 6' 10'' is
six feet ten inches.

ACCENT
Ac*cent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accented; p. pr. & vb. n. Accenting.]
Etym: [OF. accenter, F. accentuer.]

1. To express the accent of (either by the voice or by a mark); to
utter or to mark with accent.

2. To mark emphatically; to emphasize.

ACCENTLESS
Ac"cent`less, a.

Defn: Without accent.

ACCENTOR
Ac*cen"tor, n. Etym: [L. ad. + cantor singer, canere to sing.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: One who sings the leading part; the director or leader. [Obs.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of European birds (so named from their sweet notes),
including the hedge warbler. In America sometimes applied to the
water thrushes.

ACCENTUABLE
Ac*cen"tu*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being accented.

ACCENTUAL
Ac*cen"tu*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.

ACCENTUALITY
Ac*cen`tu*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being accentual.

ACCENTUALLY
Ac*cen"tu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent.

ACCENTUATE
Ac*cen"tu*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accentuated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accentuating.] Etym: [LL. accentuatus, p. p. of accentuare, fr. L.
accentus: cf. F. accentuer.]

1. To pronounce with an accent or with accents.

2. To bring out distinctly; to make prominent; to emphasize.
In Bosnia, the struggle between East and West was even more
accentuated. London Times.

3. To mark with the written accent.

ACCENTUATION
Ac*cen`tu*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. accentuatio: cf. F. accentuation.]

Defn: Act of accentuating; applications of accent. Specifically
(Eccles. Mus.),

Defn: pitch or modulation of the voice in reciting portions of the
liturgy.

ACCEPT
Ac*cept", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accepted; p. pr. & vb. n. Accepting.]
Etym: [F. accepter, L. acceptare, freq. of accipere; ad + capere to
take; akin to E. heave.]

1. To receive with a consenting mind (something offered); as, to
accept a gift; -- often followed by of.
If you accept them, then their worth is great. Shak.
To accept of ransom for my son. Milton.
She accepted of a treat. Addison.

2. To receive with favor; to approve.
The Lord accept thy burnt sacrifice. Ps. xx. 3.
Peradventure he will accept of me. Gen. xxxii. 20.

3. To receive or admit and agree to; to assent to; as, I accept your
proposal, amendment, or excuse.

4. To take by the mind; to understand; as, How are these words to be
accepted

5. (Com.)

Defn: To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept a
bill of exchange. Bouvier.

6. In a deliberate body, to receive in acquittance of a duty imposed;
as, to accept the report of a committee. [This makes it the property
of the body, and the question is then on its adoption.] To accept a
bill (Law), to agree (on the part of the drawee) to pay it when due.
 -- To accept service (Law), to agree that a writ or process shall be
considered as regularly served, when it has not been.
 -- To accept the person (Eccl.), to show favoritism. "God accepteth
no man's person." Gal. ii. 6.

Syn.
 -- To receive; take; admit. See Receive.

ACCEPT
Ac*cept", a.

Defn: Accepted. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCEPTABILITY
Ac*cept`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. acceptabilitas.]

Defn: The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness. "Acceptability
of repentance." Jer. Taylor.

ACCEPTABLE
Ac*cept"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. acceptable, L. acceptabilis, fr.
acceptare.]

Defn: Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received with
pleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as,
an acceptable present, one acceptable to us.

ACCEPTABLENESS
Ac*cept"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorably
received; acceptability.

ACCEPTABLY
Ac*cept"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or give
satisfaction.

ACCEPTANCE
Ac*cept"ance, n.

1. The act of accepting; a receiving what is offered, with
approbation, satisfaction, or acquiescence; esp., favorable
reception; approval; as, the acceptance of a gift, office, doctrine,
etc.
They shall come up with acceptance on mine altar. Isa. lx. 7.

2. State of being accepted; acceptableness. "Makes it assured of
acceptance." Shak.

3. (Com.)
(a) An assent and engagement by the person on whom a bill of exchange
is drawn, to pay it when due according to the terms of the
acceptance.
(b) The bill itself when accepted.

4. An agreeing to terms or proposals by which a bargain is concluded
and the parties are bound; the reception or taking of a thing bought
as that for which it was bought, or as that agreed to be delivered,
or the taking possession as owner.

5. (Law)

Defn: An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds
the person in law.

Note: What acts shall amount to such an acceptance is often a
question of great nicety and difficulty. Mozley & W.

Note: In modern law, proposal and acceptance are the constituent
elements into which all contracts are resolved. Acceptance of a bill
of exchange, check, draft, or order, is an engagement to pay it
according to the terms. This engagement is usually made by writing
the word "accepted" across the face of the bill. Acceptance of goods,
under the statute of frauds, is an intelligent acceptance by a party
knowing the nature of the transaction.

6. Meaning; acceptation. [Obs.] Acceptance of persons, partiality,
favoritism. See under Accept.

ACCEPTANCY
Ac*cept"an*cy, n.

Defn: Acceptance. [R.]
Here's a proof of gift, But here's no proof, sir, of acceptancy. Mrs.
Browning.

ACCEPTANT
Ac*cept"ant, a.

Defn: Accepting; receiving.

ACCEPTANT
Ac*cept"ant, n.

Defn: An accepter. Chapman.

ACCEPTATION
Ac`cep*ta"tion, n.

1. Acceptance; reception; favorable reception or regard; state of
being acceptable. [Obs.]
This is saying worthy of all acceptation. 1 Tim. i. 15.
Some things . . . are notwithstanding of so great dignity and
acceptation with God. Hooker.

2. The meaning in which a word or expression is understood, or
generally received; as, term is to be used according to its usual
acceptation.
My words, in common acceptation, Could never give this provocation.
Gay.

ACCEPTEDLY
Ac*cept"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In a accepted manner; admittedly.

ACCEPTER
Ac*cept"er, n.

1. A person who accepts; a taker.

2. A respecter; a viewer with partiality. [Obs.]
God is no accepter of persons. Chillingworth.

3. (Law)

Defn: An acceptor.

ACCEPTILATION
Ac*cep`ti*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. acceptilatio entry of a debt
collected, acquittance, fr. p. p. of accipere (cf. Accept) + latio a
carrying, fr. latus, p. p. of ferre to carry: cf. F. acceptilation.]
(Civil Law)

Defn: Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation without
payment; free remission.

ACCEPTION
Ac*cep"tion, n. Etym: [L. acceptio a receiving, accepting: cf. F.
acception.]

Defn: Acceptation; the received meaning. [Obs.]
Here the word "baron" is not to be taken in that restrictive sense to
which the modern acception hath confined it. Fuller.
Acception of persons or faces (Eccl.), favoritism; partiality. [Obs.]
Wyclif.

ACCEPTIVE
Ac*cept"ive, a.

1. Fit for acceptance.

2. Ready to accept. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ACCEPTOR
Ac*cept"or (#; 277), n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who accepts; specifically (Law & Com.),

Defn: one who accepts an order or a bill of exchange; a drawee after
he has accepted.

ACCESS
Ac*cess" (#; 277), n. Etym: [F. accès, L. accessus, fr. accedere. See
Accede.]

1. A coming to, or near approach; admittance; admission;
accessibility; as, to gain access to a prince.
I did repel his letters, and denied His access to me. Shak.

2. The means, place, or way by which a thing may be approached;
passage way; as, the access is by a neck of land. "All access was
thronged." Milton.

3. Admission to sexual intercourse.
During coverture, access of the husband shall be presumed, unless the
contrary be shown. Blackstone.

4. Increase by something added; addition; as, an access of territory.
[In this sense accession is more generally used.]
I, from the influence of thy looks, receive Access in every virtue.
Milton.

5. An onset, attack, or fit of disease.
The first access looked like an apoplexy. Burnet.

6. A paroxysm; a fit of passion; an outburst; as, an access of fury.
[A Gallicism]

ACCESSARILY
Ac*ces"sa*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an accessary.

ACCESSARINESS
Ac*ces"sa*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being accessary.

ACCESSARY
Ac*ces"sa*ry (#; 277), a.

Defn: Accompanying, as a subordinate; additional; accessory; esp.,
uniting in, or contributing to, a crime, but not as chief actor. See
Accessory.
To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary. Shak.
Amongst many secondary and accessary causes that support monarchy,
these are not of least reckoning. Milton.

ACCESSARY
Ac*ces"sa*ry (277), n.; pl. Accessaries. Etym: [Cf. Accessory and LL.
accessarius.] (Law)

Defn: One who, not being present, contributes as an assistant or
instigator to the commission of an offense. Accessary before the fact
(Law), one who commands or counsels an offense, not being present at
its commission.
 -- Accessary after the fact, one who, after an offense, assists or
shelters the offender, not being present at the commission of the
offense.

Note: This word, as used in law, is spelt accessory by Blackstone and
many others; but in this sense is spelt accessary by Bouvier,
Burrill, Burns, Whishaw, Dane, and the Penny Cyclopedia; while in
other senses it is spelt accessory. In recent text-books on criminal
law the distinction is not preserved, the spelling being either
accessary or accessory.

ACCESSIBILITY
Ac*cess`i*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. accessibilitas: cf. F.
accessibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being accessible, or of admitting approach;
receptibility. Langhorne.

ACCESSIBLE
Ac*cess"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. accessibilis, fr. accedere: cf. F.
accessible. See Accede.]

1. Easy of access or approach; approachable; as, an accessible town
or mountain, an accessible person.

2. Open to the influence of; -- with to. "Minds accessible to
reason." Macaulay.

3. Obtainable; to be got at.
The best information . . . at present accessible. Macaulay.

ACCESSIBLY
Ac*cess"i*bly, adv.

Defn: In an accessible manner.

ACCESSION
Ac*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. accessio, fr. accedere: cf. F. accession.
See Accede.]

1. A coming to; the act of acceding and becoming joined; as, a king's
accession to a confederacy.

2. Increase by something added; that which is added; augmentation
from without; as, an accession of wealth or territory.
The only accession which the Roman empire received was the province
of Britain. Gibbon.

3. (Law)
(a) A mode of acquiring property, by which the owner of a corporeal
substance which receives an addition by growth, or by labor, has a
right to the part or thing added, or the improvement (provided the
thing is not changed into a different species). Thus, the owner of a
cow becomes the owner of her calf.
(b) The act by which one power becomes party to engagements already
in force between other powers. Kent.

4. The act of coming to or reaching a throne, an office, or dignity;
as, the accession of the house of Stuart; -- applied especially to
the epoch of a new dynasty.

5. (Med.)

Defn: The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit or
paroxysm.

Syn.
 -- Increase; addition; augmentation; enlargement.

ACCESSIONAL
Ac*ces"sion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to accession; additional. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

ACCESSIVE
Ac*ces"sive, a.

Defn: Additional.

ACCESSORIAL
Ac`ces*so"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an accessory; as, accessorial agency,
accessorial guilt.

ACCESSORILY
Ac*ces"so*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary.

ACCESSORINESS
Ac*ces"so*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being accessory, or connected subordinately.

ACCESSORY
Ac*ces"so*ry (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. accessorius. See Access, and cf.
Accessary.]

Defn: Accompanying as a subordinate; aiding in a secondary way;
additional; connected as an incident or subordinate to a principal;
contributing or contributory; said of persons and things, and, when
of persons, usually in a bad sense; as, he was accessory to the riot;
accessory sounds in music.

Note: Ash accents the antepenult; and this is not only more regular,
but preferable, on account of easiness of pronunciation. Most
orhoëpists place the accent on the first syllable.

Syn.
 -- Accompanying; contributory; auxiliary; subsidiary; subservient;
additional; acceding.

ACCESSORY
Ac*ces"so*ry, n.; pl. Accessories.

1. That which belongs to something else deemed the principal;
something additional and subordinate. "The aspect and accessories of
a den of banditti." Carlyle.

2. (Law)

Defn: Same as Accessary, n.

3. (Fine Arts)

Defn: Anything that enters into a work of art without being
indispensably necessary, as mere ornamental parts. Elmes.

Syn.
 -- Abettor; accomplice; ally; coadjutor. See Abettor.

ACCIACCATURA
Ac*ciac`ca*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It., from acciaccare to crush.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short grace note, one semitone below the note to which it is
prefixed; -- used especially in organ music. Now used as equivalent
to the short appoggiatura.

ACCIDENCE
Ac"ci*dence, n. Etym: [A corruption of Eng. accidents, pl. of
accident. See Accident, 2.]

1. The accidents, of inflections of words; the rudiments of grammar.
Milton.

2. The rudiments of any subject. Lowell.

ACCIDENT
Ac"ci*dent, n. Etym: [F. accident, fr. L. accidens, -dentis, p. pr.
of accidere to happen; ad + cadere to fall. See Cadence, Case.]

1. Literally, a befalling; an event that takes place without one's
foresight or expectation; an undesigned, sudden, and unexpected
event; chance; contingency; often, an undesigned and unforeseen
occurrence of an afflictive or unfortunate character; a casualty; a
mishap; as, to die by an accident.
Of moving accidents by flood and field. Shak.
Thou cam'st not to thy place by accident: It is the very place God
meant for thee. Trench.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, as
gender, number, case.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A point or mark which may be retained or omitted in a coat of
arms.

4. (Log.)
(a) A property or quality of a thing which is not essential to it, as
whiteness in paper; an attribute.
(b) A quality or attribute in distinction from the substance, as
sweetness, softness.

5. Any accidental property, fact, or relation; an accidental or
nonessential; as, beauty is an accident.
This accident, as I call it, of Athens being situated some miles from
the sea. J. P. Mahaffy.

6. Unusual appearance or effect. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: Accident, in Law, is equivalent to casus, or such unforeseen,
extraordinary, extraneous interference as is out of the range of
ordinary calculation.

ACCIDENTAL
Ac`ci*den"tal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. accidentel, earlier accidental.]

1. Happening by chance, or unexpectedly; taking place not according
to the usual course of things; casual; fortuitous; as, an accidental
visit.

2. Nonessential; not necessary belonging; incidental; as, are
accidental to a play. Accidental chords (Mus.), those which contain
one or more tones foreign to their proper harmony.
 -- Accidental colors (Opt.), colors depending on the
hypersensibility of the retina of the eye for complementary colors.
They are purely subjective sensations of color which often result
from the contemplation of actually colored bodies.
 -- Accidental point (Persp.), the point in which a right line, drawn
from the eye, parallel to a given right line, cuts the perspective
plane; so called to distinguish it from the principal point, or point
of view, where a line drawn from the eye perpendicular to the
perspective plane meets this plane.
 -- Accidental lights (Paint.), secondary lights; effects of light
other than ordinary daylight, such as the rays of the sun darting
through a cloud, or between the leaves of trees; the effect of
moonlight, candlelight, or burning bodies. Fairholt.

Syn.
 -- Casual; fortuitous; contingent; occasional; adventitious.
 -- Accidental, Incidental, Casual, Fortuitous, Contingent. We speak
of a thing as accidental when it falls out as by chance, and not in
the regular course of things; as, an accidental meeting, an
accidental advantage, etc. We call a thing incidental when it falls,
as it were, into some regular course of things, but is secondary, and
forms no essential part thereof; as, an incremental remark, an
incidental evil, an incidental benefit. We speak of a thing as
casual, when it falls out or happens, as it were, by mere chance,
without being prearranged or premeditated; as, a casual remark or
encounter; a casual observer. An idea of the unimportant is attached
to what is casual. Fortuitous is applied to what occurs without any
known cause, and in opposition to what has been foreseen; as, a
fortuitous concourse of atoms. We call a thing contingent when it is
such that, considered in itself, it may or may not happen, but is
dependent for its existence on something else; as, the time of my
coming will be contingent on intelligence yet to be received.

ACCIDENTAL
Ac`ci*den"tal, n.

1. A property which is not essential; a nonessential; anything
happening accidentally.
He conceived it just that accidentals . . . should sink with the
substance of the accusation. Fuller.

2. pl. (Paint.)

Defn: Those fortuitous effects produced by luminous rays falling on
certain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightness
and other parts are cast into a deep shadow.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A sharp, flat, or natural, occurring not at the commencement of
a piece of music as the signature, but before a particular note.

ACCIDENTALISM
Ac`ci*den"tal*ism, n.

Defn: Accidental character or effect. Ruskin.

ACCIDENTALITY
Ac`ci*den*tal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being accidental; accidentalness. [R.]
Coleridge.

ACCIDENTALLY
Ac`ci*den"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accidental manner; unexpectedly; by chance;
unintentionally; casually; fortuitously; not essentially.

ACCIDENTALNESS
Ac`ci*den"tal*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being accidental; casualness.

ACCIDIE
Ac"ci*die, n. Etym: [OF. accide, accidie, LL. accidia, acedia, fr.
Gr.

Defn: Sloth; torpor. [Obs.] "The sin of accidie." Chaucer.

ACCIPENSER
Ac`ci*pen"ser, n.

Defn: See Acipenser.

ACCIPIENT
Ac*cip"i*ent, n. Etym: [L. accipiens, p. pr. of accipere. See
Accept.]

Defn: A receiver. [R.] Bailey

ACCIPITER
Ac*cip"i*ter, n.; pl. E. Accipiters. L. Accipitres. Etym: [L., hawk.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of rapacious birds; one of the Accipitres or Raptores.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A bandage applied over the nose, resembling the claw of a hawk.

ACCIPITRAL
Ac*cip"i*tral, n.

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a falcon or hawk; hawklike.
Lowell.

ACCIPITRES
Ac*cip"i*tres, n. pl. Etym: [L., hawks.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The order that includes rapacious birds. They have a hooked
bill, and sharp, strongly curved talons. There are three families,
represented by the vultures, the falcons or hawks, and the owls.

ACCIPITRINE
Ac*cip"i*trine (#; 277), a. Etym: [Cf. F. accipitrin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the Accipitres; raptorial; hawklike.

ACCISMUS
Ac*cis"mus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: Affected refusal; coyness.

ACCITE
Ac*cite", v. t. Etym: [L. accitus, p. p. of accire, accere, to call
for; ad + ciere to move, call. See Cite.]

Defn: To cite; to summon. [Obs.]
Our heralds now accited all that were Endamaged by the Elians.
Chapman.

ACCLAIM
Ac*claim", v. t. Etym: [L. acclamare; ad + clamare to cry out. See
Claim, Clamor.] [R.]

1. To applaud. "A glad acclaiming train." Thomson.

2. To declare by acclamations.
While the shouting crowd Acclaims thee king of traitors. Smollett.

3. To shout; as, to acclaim my joy.

ACCLAIM
Ac*claim", v. i.

Defn: To shout applause.

ACCLAIM
Ac*claim", n.

Defn: Acclamation. [Poetic] Milton.

ACCLAIMER
Ac*claim"er, n.

Defn: One who acclaims.

ACCLAMATION
Ac`cla*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. acclamatio: cf. F. acclamation.]

1. A shout of approbation, favor, or assent; eager expression of
approval; loud applause.
On such a day, a holiday having been voted by acclamation, an
ordinary walk would not satisfy the children. Southey.

2. (Antiq.)

Defn: A representation, in sculpture or on medals, of people
expressing joy. Acclamation medals are those on which laudatory
acclamations are recorded. Elmes.

ACCLAMATORY
Ac*clam"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or expressing approval by, acclamation.

ACCLIMATABLE
Ac*cli"ma*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acclimated.

ACCLIMATATION
Ac*cli`ma*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acclimation. See Acclimate.]

Defn: Acclimatization.

ACCLIMATE
Ac*cli"mate (#; 277), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acclimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acclimating.] Etym: [F. acclimater; à (l. ad) + climat climate. See
Climate.]

Defn: To habituate to a climate not native; to acclimatize. J. H.
Newman.

ACCLIMATEMENT
Ac*cli"mate*ment, n.

Defn: Acclimation. [R.]

ACCLIMATION
Ac`cli*ma"tion, n.

Defn: The process of becoming, or the state of being, acclimated, or
habituated to a new climate; acclimatization.

ACCLIMATIZABLE
Ac*cli"ma*ti`za*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acclimatized.

ACCLIMATIZATION
Ac*cli"ma*ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a new
climate, or the state of being so inured. Darwin.

ACCLIMATIZE
Ac*cli"ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acclimatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acclimatizing.]

Defn: To inure or habituate to a climate different from that which is
natural; to adapt to the peculiarities of a foreign or strange
climate; said of man, the inferior animals, or plants.

ACCLIMATURE
Ac*cli"ma*ture (#; 135), n.

Defn: The act of acclimating, or the state of being acclimated. [R.]
Caldwell.

ACCLIVE
Ac*clive", a.

Defn: Acclivous. [Obs.]

ACCLIVITOUS
Ac*cliv"i*tous, a.

Defn: Acclivous. I. Taylor.

ACCLIVITOUS
Ac*cliv"i*tous, a.

Defn: Acclivous.  I. Taylor.

ACCLIVITY
Ac*cliv"i*ty, n.; pl. Acclivities. Etym: [L. acclivitas, fr.
acclivis, acclivus, ascending; ad + clivus a hill, slope, fr. root
kli to lean. See Lean.]

Defn: A slope or inclination of the earth, as the side of a hill,
considered as ascending, in opposition to declivity, or descending;
an upward slope; ascent.

ACCLIVOUS
Ac*cli"vous (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. acclivis and acclivus.]

Defn: Sloping upward; rising as a hillside; -- opposed to declivous.

ACCLOY
Ac*cloy", v. t. Etym: [OF. encloyer, encloer, F. enclouer, to drive
in a nail, fr. L. in + clavus nail.]

Defn: To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; to
burden. See Cloy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCOAST
Ac*coast", v. t. & i. Etym: [See Accost, Coast.]

Defn: To lie or sail along the coast or side of; to accost. [Obs.]
Whether high towering or accosting low. Spenser.

ACCOIL
Ac*coil", v. t. Etym: [OE. acoillir to receive, F. accueillir; L. ad
+ colligere to collect. See Coil.]

1. To gather together; to collect. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To coil together. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

ACCOLADE
Ac`co*lade" (#; 277), n. Etym: [F. accolade, It. accolata, fr.
accollare to embrace; L. ad + collum neck.]

1. A ceremony formerly used in conferring knighthood, consisting am
embrace, and a slight blow on the shoulders with the flat blade of a
sword.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A brace used to join two or more staves.

ACCOMBINATION
Ac*com*bi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. ad + E. combination.]

Defn: A combining together. [R.]

ACCOMMODABLE
Ac*com"mo*da*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. accommodable.]

Defn: That may be accommodated, fitted, or made to agree. [R.] I.
Watts.

ACCOMMODABLENESS
Ac*com"mo*dable*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being accommodable. [R.] Todd.

ACCOMMODATE
Ac*com"mo*date, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accommodated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accommodating.] Etym: [L. accommodatus, p. p. of accommodare; ad +
commodare to make fit, help; con- + modus measure, proportion. See
Mode.]

1. To render fit, suitable, or correspondent; to adapt; to conform;
as, to accommodate ourselves to circumstances. "They accomodate their
counsels to his inclination." Addison.

2. To bring into agreement or harmony; to reconcile; to compose; to
adjust; to settle; as, to accommodate differences, a dispute, etc.

3. To furnish with something desired, needed, or convenient; to
favor; to oblige; as, to accommodate a friend with a loan or with
lodgings.

4. To show the correspondence of; to apply or make suit by analogy;
to adapt or fit, as teachings to accidental circumstances, statements
to facts, etc.; as, to accommodate prophecy to events.

Syn.
 -- To suit; adapt; conform; adjust; arrange.

ACCOMMODATE
Ac*com"mo*date, v. i.

Defn: To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted. [R.] Boyle.

ACCOMMODATE
Ac*com"mo*date, a. Etym: [L. accommodatus, p.p. of accommodare.]

Defn: Suitable; fit; adapted; as, means accommodate to end. [Archaic]
Tillotson.

ACCOMMODATELY
Ac*com"mo*date*ly, adv.

Defn: Suitably; fitly. [R.]

ACCOMMODATENESS
Ac*com"mo*date*ness, n.

Defn: Fitness. [R.]

ACCOMMODATING
Ac*com"mo*da`ting, a.

Defn: Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; as
an accommodating man, spirit, arrangement.

ACCOMMODATION
Ac*com`mo*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. accommodatio, fr. accommodare: cf. F.
accommodation.]

1. The act of fitting or adapting, or the state of being fitted or
adapted; adaptation; adjustment; -- followed by to. "The organization
of the body with accommodation to its functions." Sir M. Hale.

2. Willingness to accommodate; obligingness.

3. Whatever supplies a want or affords ease, refreshment, or
convenience; anything furnished which is desired or needful; -- often
in the plural; as, the accomodations -- that is, lodgings and food --
at an inn. Sir W. Scott.

4. An adjustment of differences; state of agreement; reconciliation;
settlement. "To come to terms of accommodation." Macaulay.

5. The application of a writer's language, on the ground of analogy,
to something not originally referred to or intended.
Many of those quotations from the Old Testament were probably
intended as nothing more than accommodations. Paley.

6. (Com.)
(a) A loan of money.
(b) An accommodation bill or note. Accommodation bill, or note
(Com.), a bill of exchange which a person accepts, or a note which a
person makes and delivers to another, not upon a consideration
received, but for the purpose of raising money on credit.
 -- Accommodation coach, or train, one running at moderate speed and
stopping at all or nearly all stations.
 -- Accommodation ladder (Naut.), a light ladder hung over the side
of a ship at the gangway, useful in ascending from, or descending to,
small boats.

ACCOMMODATOR
Ac*com"mo*da`tor, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, accommodates. Warburton.

ACCOMPANABLE
Ac*com"pa*na*ble, a.

Defn: Sociable. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

ACCOMPANIER
Ac*com"pa*ni*er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, accompanies. Lamb.

ACCOMPANIMENT
Ac*com"pa*ni*ment, n. Etym: [F. accompagnement.]

Defn: That which accompanies; something that attends as a
circumstance, or which is added to give greater completeness to the
principal thing, or by way of ornament, or for the sake of symmetry.
Specifically: (Mus.)

Defn: A part performed by instruments, accompanying another part or
parts performed by voices; the subordinate part, or parts,
accompanying the voice or a principal instrument; also, the harmony
of a figured bass. P. Cyc.

ACCOMPANIST
Ac*com"pa*nist, n.

Defn: The performer in music who takes the accompanying part. Busby.

ACCOMPANY
Ac*com"pa*ny, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accompanied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accompanying] Etym: [OF. aacompaignier, F. accompagner, to associate
with, fr. OF. compaign, compain, companion. See Company.]

1. To go with or attend as a companion or associate; to keep company
with; to go along with; -- followed by with or by; as, he accompanied
his speech with a bow.
The Persian dames, . . . In sumptuous cars, accompanied his march.
Glover.
They are never alone that are accompanied with noble thoughts. Sir P.
Sidney.
He was accompanied by two carts filled with wounded rebels. Macaulay.

2. To cohabit with. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

Syn.
 -- To attend; escort; go with.
 -- To Accompany, Attend, Escort. We accompany those with whom we go
as companions. The word imports an equality of station. We attend
those whom we wait upon or follow. The word conveys an idea of
subordination. We escort those whom we attend with a view to guard
and protect. A gentleman accompanies a friend to some public place;
he attends or escorts a lady.

ACCOMPANY
Ac*com"pa*ny, v. i.

1. To associate in a company; to keep company. [Obs.] Bacon.
Men say that they will drive away one another, . . . and not
accompany together. Holland.

2. To cohabit (with). [Obs.] Milton.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: To perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition.

ACCOMPLETIVE
Ac*com"ple*tive, a. Etym: [L. ad + complere, completum, to fill up.]

Defn: Tending to accomplish. [R.]

ACCOMPLICE
Ac*com"plice, n. Etym: [Ac- (perh. for the article a or for L. ad) +
E. complice. See Complice.]

1. A cooperator. [R.]
Success unto our valiant general, And happiness to his accomplices!
Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: An associate in the commission of a crime; a participator in an
offense, whether a principal or an accessory. "And thou, the cursed
accomplice of his treason." Johnson.

Note: It is followed by with or of before a person and by in (or
sometimes of) before the crime; as, A was an accomplice with B in the
murder of C. Dryden uses it with to before a thing. "Suspected for
accomplice to the fire." Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Abettor; accessory; assistant; associate; confederate; coadjutor;
ally; promoter. See Abettor.

ACCOMPLICESHIP
Ac*com"plice*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being an accomplice. [R.] Sir H. Taylor.

ACCOMPLICITY
Ac`com*plic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The act or state of being an accomplice. [R.]

ACCOMPLISH
Ac*com"plish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accomplished, p. pr. & vb. n.
Accomplishing.] Etym: [OE. acomplissen, OF. accomplir, F. accomplir;
L. ad + complere to fill up, complete. See Complete, Finish.]

1. To complete, as time or distance.
That He would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of
Jerusalem. Dan. ix. 2.
He had accomplished half a league or more. Prescott.

2. To bring to an issue of full success; to effect; to perform; to
execute fully; to fulfill; as, to accomplish a design, an object, a
promise.
This that is written must yet be accomplished in me. Luke xxii. 37.

3. To equip or furnish thoroughly; hence, to complete in
acquirements; to render accomplished; to polish.
The armorers accomplishing the knights. Shak.
It [the moon] is fully accomplished for all those ends to which
Providence did appoint it. Wilkins.
These qualities . . . go to accomplish a perfect woman. Cowden
Clarke.

4. To gain; to obtain. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- To do; perform; fulfill; realize; effect; effectuate; complete;
consummate; execute; achieve; perfect; equip; furnish.
 -- To Accomplish, Effect, Execute, Achieve, Perform. These words
agree in the general idea of carrying out to some end proposed. To
accomplish (to fill up to the measure of the intention) generally
implies perseverance and skill; as, to accomplish a plan proposed by
one's self, an object, a design, an undertaking. "Thou shalt
accomplish my desire." 1 Kings v. 9.
He . . . expressed his desire to see a union accomplished between
England and Scotland. Macaulay.
To effect (to work out) is much like accomplish. It usually implies
some degree of difficulty contended with; as, he effected or
accomplished what he intended, his purpose, but little. "What he
decreed, he effected." Milton.
To work in close design by fraud or guile What force effected not.
Milton.
To execute (to follow out to the end, to carry out, or into effect)
implies a set mode of operation; as, to execute the laws or the
orders of another; to execute a work, a purpose, design, plan,
project. To perform is much like to do, though less generally
applied. It conveys a notion of protracted and methodical effort; as,
to perform a mission, a part, a task, a work. "Thou canst best
perform that office." Milton.
The Saints, like stars, around his seat Perform their courses still.
Keble.
To achieve (to come to the end or arrive at one's purpose) usually
implies some enterprise or undertaking of importance, difficulty, and
excellence.

ACCOMPLISHABLE
Ac*com"plish*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being accomplished; practicable. Carlyle.

ACCOMPLISHED
Ac*com"plished, a.

1. Completed; effected; established; as, an accomplished fact.

2. Complete in acquirements as the result usually of training; --
commonly in a good sense; as, an accomplished scholar, an
accomplished villain.
They . . . show themselves accomplished bees. Holland.
Daughter of God and man, accomplished Eve. Milton.

ACCOMPLISHER
Ac*com"plish*er, n.

Defn: One who accomplishes.

ACCOMPLISHMENT
Ac*com"plish*ment, n. Etym: [F. accomplissement, fr. accomplir.]

1. The act of accomplishing; entire performance; completion;
fulfillment; as, the accomplishment of an enterprise, of a prophecy,
etc.

2. That which completes, perfects, or equips thoroughly; acquirement;
attainment; that which constitutes excellence of mind, or elegance of
manners, acquired by education or training. "My new accomplishment of
dancing." Churchill. "Accomplishments befitting a station."
Thackeray.
Accomplishments have taken virtue's place, And wisdom falls before
exterior grace. Cowper.

ACCOMPT
Ac*compt" (#; formerly #), n.

Defn: See Account.

Note: Accompt, accomptant, etc., are archaic forms.

ACCOMPTABLE
Ac*compt"a*ble, a.

Defn: See Accountable.

ACCOMPTANT
Ac*compt"ant, n.

Defn: See Accountant.

ACCORD
Ac*cord", n. Etym: [OE. acord, accord, OF. acort, acorde, F. accord,
fr. OF. acorder, F. accorder. See Accord, v. t.]

1. Agreement or concurrence of opinion, will, or action; harmony of
mind; consent; assent.
A mediator of an accord and peace between them. Bacon.
These all continued with one accord in prayer. Acts i. 14.

2. Harmony of sounds; agreement in pitch and tone; concord; as, the
accord of tones.
Those sweet accords are even the angels' lays. Sir J. Davies.

3. Agreement, harmony, or just correspondence of things; as, the
accord of light and shade in painting.

4. Voluntary or spontaneous motion or impulse to act; -- preceded by
own; as, of one's own accord.
That which groweth of its own accord of thy harvest thou shalt not
reap. Lev. xxv. 5.
Of his own accord he went unto you. 2 Cor. vii. 17.

5. (Law)

Defn: An agreement between parties in controversy, by which
satisfaction for an injury is stipulated, and which, when executed,
bars a suit. Blackstone. With one accord, with unanimity.
They rushed with one accord into the theater. Acts xix. 29.

ACCORD
Ac*cord", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accorded; p. pr. & vb. n. According.]
Etym: [OE. acorden, accorden, OF. acorder, F. accorder, fr. LL.
accordare; L. ad + cor, cordis, heart. Cf. Concord, Discord, and see
Heart.]

1. To make to agree or correspond; to suit one thing to another; to
adjust; -- followed by to. [R.]
Her hands accorded the lute's music to the voice. Sidney.

2. To bring to an agreement, as persons; to reconcile; to settle,
adjust, harmonize, or compose, as things; as, to accord suits or
controversies.
When they were accorded from the fray. Spenser.
All which particulars, being confessedly knotty and difficult can
never be accorded but by a competent stock of critical learning.
South.

3. To grant as suitable or proper; to concede; to award; as, to
accord to one due praise. "According his desire." Spenser.

ACCORD
Ac*cord", v. i.

1. To agree; to correspond; to be in harmony; -- followed by with,
formerly also by to; as, his disposition accords with his looks.
My heart accordeth with my tongue. Shak.
Thy actions to thy words accord. Milton.

2. To agree in pitch and tone.

ACCORDABLE
Ac*cord"a*ble, a. Etym: [OF. acordable, F. accordable.]

1. Agreeing. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Reconcilable; in accordance.

ACCORDANCE
Ac*cord"ance, n. Etym: [OF. acordance.]

Defn: Agreement; harmony; conformity. "In strict accordance with the
law." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Harmony; unison; coincidence.

ACCORDANCY
Ac*cord"an*cy, n.

Defn: Accordance. [R.] Paley.

ACCORDANT
Ac*cord"ant, a. Etym: [OF. acordant, F. accordant.]

Defn: Agreeing; consonant; harmonious; corresponding; conformable; --
followed by with or to.
Strictly accordant with true morality. Darwin.
And now his voice accordant to the string. Coldsmith.

ACCORDANTLY
Ac*cord"ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In accordance or agreement; agreeably; conformably; -- followed
by with or to.

ACCORDER
Ac*cord"er, n.

Defn: One who accords, assents, or concedes. [R.]

ACCORDING
Ac*cord"ing, p. a.

Defn: Agreeing; in agreement or harmony; harmonious. "This according
voice of national wisdom." Burke. "Mind and soul according well."
Tennyson.
According to him, every person was to be bought. Macaulay.
Our zeal should be according to knowledge. Sprat.

Note: According to has been called a prepositional phrase, but
strictly speaking, according is a participle in the sense of
agreeing, acceding, and to alone is the preposition. According as,
precisely as; the same as; corresponding to the way in which.
According as is an adverbial phrase, of which the propriety has been
doubted; but good usage sanctions it. See According, adv.
Is all things well, According as I gave directions Shak.
The land which the Lord will give you according as he hath promised.
Ex. xii. 25.
p. 13

ACCORDING
Ac*cord"ing, adv.

Defn: Accordingly; correspondingly. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCORDINGLY
Ac*cord"ing*ly, adv.

1. Agreeably; correspondingly; suitably; in a manner conformable.
Behold, and so proceed accordingly. Shak.

2. In natural sequence; consequently; so.

Syn.
 -- Consequently; therefore; wherefore; hence; so.
 -- Accordingly, Consequently, indicate a connection between two
things, the latter of which is done on account of the former.
Accordingly marks the connection as one of simple accordance or
congruity, leading naturally to the result which followed; as, he was
absent when I called, and I accordingly left my card; our
preparations were all finished, and we accordingly set sail.
Consequently all finished, and we accordingly set sail. Consequently
marks a closer connection, that of logical or causal sequence; as,
the papers were not ready, and consequently could not be signed.

ACCORDION
Ac*cor"di*on, n. Etym: [See Accord.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones are
generated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds.

ACCORDIONIST
Ac*cor"di*on*ist, n.

Defn: A player on the accordion.

ACCORDMENT
Ac*cord"ment, n. Etym: [OF. acordement. See Accord, v.]

Defn: Agreement; reconcilement. [Obs.] Gower.

ACCORPORATE
Ac*cor"po*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. accorporare; ad + corpus, corporis,
body.]

Defn: To unite; to attach; to incorporate. [Obs.] Milton.

ACCOST
Ac*cost" (#; 115), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accosted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accosting.] Etym: [F. accoster, LL. accostare to bring side by side;
L. ad + costa rib, side. See Coast, and cf. Accoast.]

1. To join side to side; to border; hence, to sail along the coast or
side of. [Obs.] "So much [of Lapland] as accosts the sea." Fuller.

2. To approach; to make up to. [Archaic] Shak.

3. To speak to first; to address; to greet. "Him, Satan thus
accosts." Milton.

ACCOST
Ac*cost", v. i.

Defn: To adjoin; to lie alongside. [Obs.] "The shores which to the
sea accost." Spenser.

ACCOST
Ac*cost", n.

Defn: Address; greeting. [R.] J. Morley.

ACCOSTABLE
Ac*cost"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. accostable.]

Defn: Approachable; affable. [R.] Hawthorne.

ACCOSTED
Ac*cost"ed, a. (Her.)

Defn: Supported on both sides by other charges; also, side by side.

ACCOUCHEMENT
Ac*couche"ment (#; 277), n. Etym: [F., fr. accoucher to be delivered
of a child, to aid in delivery, OF. acouchier orig. to lay down, put
to bed, go to bed; L. ad + collocare to lay, put, place. See
Collate.]

Defn: Delivery in childbed

ACCOUCHEUR
Ac*cou*cheur", n. Etym: [F., fr. accoucher. See Accouchement.]

Defn: A man who assists women in childbirth; a man midwife; an
obstetrician.

ACCOUCHEUSE
Ac*cou*cheuse", n. Etym: [F.., fem. of accoucher.]

Defn: A midwife. [Recent] Dunglison.

ACCOUNT
Ac*count", n. Etym: [OE. acount, account, accompt, OF. acont, fr.
aconter. See Account, v. t., Count, n., 1.]

1. A reckoning; computation; calculation; enumeration; a record of
some reckoning; as, the Julian account of time.
A beggarly account of empty boxes. Shak.

2. A registry of pecuniary transactions; a written or printed
statement of business dealings or debts and credits, and also of
other things subjected to a reckoning or review; as, to keep one's
account at the bank.

3. A statement in general of reasons, causes, grounds, etc.,
explanatory of some event; as, no satisfactory account has been given
of these phenomena. Hence, the word is often used simply for reason,
ground, consideration, motive, etc.; as, on no account, on every
account, on all accounts.

4. A statement of facts or occurrences; recital of transactions; a
relation or narrative; a report; a description; as, an account of a
battle. "A laudable account of the city of London." Howell.

5. A statement and explanation or vindication of one's conduct with
reference to judgment thereon.
Give an account of thy stewardship. Luke xvi. 2.

6. An estimate or estimation; valuation; judgment. "To stand high in
your account." Shak.

7. Importance; worth; value; advantage; profit. "Men of account."
Pope. "To turn to account." Shak. Account current, a running or
continued account between two or more parties, or a statement of the
particulars of such an account.
 -- In account with, in a relation requiring an account to be kept.
 -- On account of, for the sake of; by reason of; because of.
 -- On one's own account, for one's own interest or behalf.
 -- To make account, to have an opinion or expectation; to reckon.
[Obs.]
s other part . . . makes account to find no slender arguments for
this assertion out of those very scriptures which are commonly urged
against it. Milton.
-- To make account of, to hold in estimation; to esteem; as, he makes
small account of beauty.
 -- To take account of, or to take into account, to take into
consideration; to notice. "Of their doings, God takes no account."
Milton
.
 -- A writ of account (Law), a writ which the plaintiff brings
demanding that the defendant shall render his just account, or show
good cause to the contrary; -- called also an action of account.
Cowell.

Syn.
 -- Narrative; narration; relation; recital; description;
explanation; rehearsal.
 -- Account, Narrative, Narration, Recital. These words are applied
to different modes of rehearsing a series of events. Account turns
attention not so much to the speaker as to the fact related, and more
properly applies to the report of some single event, or a group of
incidents taken as whole; as, an account of a battle, of a shipwreck,
etc. A narrative is a continuous story of connected incidents, such
as one friend might tell to another; as, a narrative of the events of
a siege, a narrative of one's life, etc. Narration is usually the
same as narrative, but is sometimes used to describe the mode of
relating events; as, his powers of narration are uncommonly great.
Recital denotes a series of events drawn out into minute particulars,
usually expressing something which peculiarly interests the feelings
of the speaker; as, the recital of one's wrongs, disappointments,
sufferings, etc.

1. To reckon; to compute; to count. [Obs.]
The motion of . . . the sun whereby years are accounted. Sir T.
Browne.

2. To place to one's account; to put to the credit of; to assign; --
with to. [R.] Clarendon.

3. To value, estimate, or hold in opinion; to judge or consider; to
deem.
Accounting that God was able to raise him up. Heb. xi. 19.

4. To recount; to relate. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCOUNT
Ac*count", v. i.

1. To render or receive an account or relation of particulars; as, an
officer must account with or to the treasurer for money received.

2. To render an account; to answer in judgment; -- with for; as, we
must account for the use of our opportunities.

3. To give a satisfactory reason; to tell the cause of; to explain; -
- with for; as, idleness accounts for poverty. To account of, to
esteem; to prize; to value. Now used only in the passive. "I account
of her beauty." Shak.
Newer was preaching more accounted of than in the sixteenth century.
Canon Robinson.

ACCOUNTABILITY
Ac*count"a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being accountable; liability to be called on to
render an account; accountableness. "The awful idea of
accountability." R. Hall.

ACCOUNTABLE
Ac*count"a*ble, a.

1. Liable to be called on to render an account; answerable; as, every
man is accountable to God for his conduct.

2. Capable of being accounted for; explicable. [R.]
True religion . . . intelligible, rational, and accountable, -- not a
burden but a privilege. B. Whichcote.

Syn.
 -- Amenable; responsible; liable; answerable.

ACCOUNTABLENESS
Ac*count"a*ble ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being accountable; accountability.

ACCOUNTABLY
Ac*count"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an accountable manner.

ACCOUNTANCY
Ac*count"an*cy, n.

Defn: The art or employment of an accountant.

ACCOUNTANT
Ac*count"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. accomptant, OF. acontant, p. pr.]

1. One who renders account; one accountable.

2. A reckoner.

3. One who is skilled in, keeps, or adjusts, accounts; an officer in
a public office, who has charge of the accounts. Accountatn general,
the head or superintending accountant in certain public offices.
Also, formerly, an officer in the English court of chancery who
received the moneys paid into the court, and deposited them in the
Bank of England.

ACCOUNTANT
Ac*count"ant, a.

Defn: Accountable. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCOUNTANTSHIP
Ac*count"ant*ship, n. Etym: [Accountant + -ship.]

Defn: The office or employment of an accountant.

ACCOUNT BOOK
Ac*count" book`.

Defn: A book in which accounts are kept. Swift.

ACCOUPLE
Ac*cou"ple, v. t. Etym: [OF. acopler, F. accoupler. See Couple.]

Defn: To join; to couple. [R.]
The Englishmen accoupled themselves with the Frenchmen. Hall.

ACCOUPLEMENT
Ac*cou"ple*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. accouplement.]

1. The act of coupling, or the state of being coupled; union. [R.]
Caxton.

2. That which couples, as a tie or brace. [R.]

ACCOURAGE
Ac*cour"age, v. t. Etym: [OF. acoragier; à (L. ad) + corage. See
Courage.]

Defn: To encourage. [Obs.]

ACCOURT
Ac*court", v. t. Etym: [Ac-, for L. ad. See Court.]

Defn: To treat courteously; to court. [Obs.] Spenser.

ACCOUTER; ACCOUTRE
Ac*cou"ter, Ac*cou"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accoutered or Accoutred;
p. pr. & vb. n. Accoutering or Accoutring.] Etym: [F. accouter, OF.
accoutrer, accoustrer; à (L. ad) + perh. LL. custor, for custos
guardian, sacristan (cf. Custody), or perh. akin to E. guilt.]

Defn: To furnish with dress, or equipments, esp. those for military
service; to equip; to attire; to array.
Bot accoutered like young men. Shak.
For this, in rags accoutered are they seen. Dryden.
Accoutered with his burden and his staff. Wordsworth.

ACCOUTERMENTS; ACCOUTREMENTS
Ac*cou"ter*ments, Ac*cou"tre*ments, n. pl. Etym: [F. accoutrement,
earlier also accoustrement, earlier also accoustrement. See
Accouter.]

Defn: Dress; trappings; equipment; specifically, the devices and
equipments worn by soldiers.
How gay with all the accouterments of war!

ACCOY
Ac*coy", v. t. Etym: [OF. acoyer; ac-, for L. ad. See Coy.]

1. To render quiet; to soothe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To subdue; to tame; to daunt. [Obs.]
Then is your careless courage accoyed. Spenser.

ACCREDIT
Ac*cred"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accredited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accrediting.] Etym: [F. accréditer; à (L. ad) + crédit credit. See
Credit.]

1. To put or bring into credit; to invest with credit or authority;
to sanction.
His censure will . . . accredit his praises. Cowper.
These reasons . . . which accredit and fortify mine opinion. Shelton.

2. To send with letters credential, as an ambassador, envoy, or
diplomatic agent; to authorize, as a messenger or delegate.
Beton . . . was accredited to the Court of France. Froude.

3. To believe; to credit; to put trust in.
The version of early Roman history which was accredited in the fifth
century. Sir G. C. Lewis.
He accredited and repeated stories of apparitions and witchcraft.
Southey.

4. To credit; to vouch for or consider (some one) as doing something,
or (something) as belonging to some one. To accredit (one) with
(something), to attribute something to him; as, Mr. Clay was
accredited with these views; they accredit him with a wise saying.

ACCREDITATION
Ac*cred`i*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation.

ACCREMENTITIAL
Ac`cre*men*ti"tial, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to accremention.

ACCREMENTITION
Ac`cre*men*ti"tion, n. Etym: [See Accresce, Increment.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The process of generation by development of blastema, or
fission of cells, in which the new formation is in all respect like
the individual from which it proceeds.

ACCRESCE
Ac*cresce", v. i. Etym: [L. accrescere. See Accrue.]

1. To accrue. [R.]

2. To increase; to grow. [Obs.] Gillespie.

ACCRESCENCE
Ac*cres"cence, n. Etym: [LL. accrescentia.]

Defn: Continuous growth; an accretion. [R.]
The silent accrescence of belief from the unwatched depositions of a
general, never contradicted hearsy. Coleridge.

ACCRESCENT
Ac*cres"cent, a. Etym: [L. accrescens, -entis, p. pr. of accrescere;
ad + crescere to grow. See Crescent.]

1. Growing; increasing. Shuckford.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing larger after flowering. Gray.

ACCRETE
Ac*crete", v. i. Etym: [From L. accretus, p. p. of accrescere to
increase.]

1. To grow together.

2. To adhere; to grow (to); to be added; -- with to.

ACCRETE
Ac*crete", v. t.

Defn: To make adhere; to add. Earle.

ACCRETE
Ac*crete", a.

1. Characterized by accretion; made up; as, accrete matter.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Grown together. Gray.

ACCRETION
Ac*cre"tion, n. Etym: [L. accretio, fr. accrescere to increase. Cf.
Crescent, Increase, Accrue.]

1. The act of increasing by natural growth; esp. the increase of
organic bodies by the internal accession of parts; organic growth.
Arbuthnot.

2. The act of increasing, or the matter added, by an accession of
parts externally; an extraneous addition; as, an accretion of earth.
A mineral . . . augments not by grown, but by accretion. Owen.
To strip off all the subordinate parts of his as a later accretion.
Sir G. C. Lewis.

3. Concretion; coherence of separate particles; as, the accretion of
particles so as to form a solid mass.

4. A growing together of parts naturally separate, as of the fingers
toes. Dana.

5. (Law)
(a) The adhering of property to something else, by which the owner of
one thing becomes possessed of a right to another; generally, gain of
land by the washing up of sand or sail from the sea or a river, or by
a gradual recession of the water from the usual watermark.
(b) Gain to an heir or legatee, failure of a coheir to the same
succession, or a co-legatee of the same thing, to take his share.
Wharton. Kent.

ACCRETIVE
Ac*cre"tive, a.

Defn: Relating to accretion; increasing, or adding to, by growth.
Glanvill.

ACCRIMINATE
Ac*crim"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. ac- (for ad to) + criminari.]

Defn: To accuse of a crime. [Obs.] -- Ac*crim`i*na"tion, n. [Obs.]

ACCROACH
Ac*croach", v. t. Etym: [OE. acrochen, accrochen, to obtain, OF.
acrochier, F. accrocher; à (L. ad) + croc hook (E. crook).]

1. To hook, or draw to one's self as with a hook. [Obs.]

2. To usurp, as jurisdiction or royal prerogatives.
They had attempted to accroach to themselves royal power. Stubbs.

ACCROACHMENT
Ac*croach"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. accrochement.]

Defn: An encroachment; usurpation. [Obs.] Bailey.

ACCRUAL
Ac*cru"al, n.

Defn: Accrument. [R.]

ACCRUE
Ac*crue", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Accrued; p. pr. & vb. n. Accruing.]
Etym: [See Accrue, n., and cf. Accresce, Accrete.]

1. To increase; to augment.
And though power failed, her courage did accrue. Spenser.

2. To come to by way of increase; to arise or spring as a growth or
result; to be added as increase, profit, or damage, especially as the
produce of money lent. "Interest accrues to principal." Abbott.
The great and essential advantages accruing to society from the
freedom of the press. Junius.

ACCRUE
Ac*crue", n. Etym: [F. accrû, OF. acreü, p. p. of accroitre, OF.
acroistre to increase; L. ad + crescere to increase. Cf. Accretion,
Crew. See Crescent.]

Defn: Something that accrues; advantage accruing. [Obs.]

ACCRUER
Ac*cru"er, n. (Law)

Defn: The act of accruing; accretion; as, title by accruer.

ACCRUMENT
Ac*cru"ment, n.

Defn: The process of accruing, or that which has accrued; increase.
Jer. Taylor.

ACCUBATION
Ac`cu*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. accubatio, for accubatio, fr. accubare to
recline; ad + cubare to lie down. See Accumb.]

Defn: The act or posture of reclining on a couch, as practiced by the
ancients at meals.

ACCUMB
Ac*cumb", v. i. Etym: [L. accumbere; ad + cumbere (only in compounds)
to lie down.]

Defn: To recline, as at table. [Obs.] Bailey.

ACCUMBENCY
Ac*cum"ben*cy, n.

Defn: The state of being accumbent or reclining. [R.]

ACCUMBENT
Ac*cum"bent, a.

1. Leaning or reclining, as the ancients did at their meals.
The Roman.. accumbent posture in eating. Arbuthnot.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Lying against anything, as one part of a leaf against another
leaf. Gray.
Accumbent cotyledons have their edges placed against the caulicle.
Eaton.

ACCUMBENT
Ac*cum"bent, n.

Defn: One who reclines at table.

ACCUMBER
Ac*cum"ber, v. t.

Defn: To encumber. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCUMULATE
Ac*cu"mu*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accumulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accumulating.] Etym: [L. accumulatus, p. p. of accumulare; ad +
cumulare to heap. See Cumulate.]

Defn: To heap up in a mass; to pile up; to collect or bring together;
to amass; as, to accumulate a sum of money.

Syn.
 -- To collect; pile up; store; amass; gather; aggregate; heap
together; hoard.

ACCUMULATE
Ac*cu"mu*late, v. i.

Defn: To grow or increase in quantity or number; to increase greatly.
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealth
accumulates, and men decay. Goldsmith.

ACCUMULATE
Ac*cu"mu*late, a. Etym: [L. accumulatus, p. p. of accumulare.]

Defn: Collected; accumulated. Bacon.

ACCUMULATION
Ac*cu`mu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. accumulatio; cf. F. accumulation.]

1. The act of accumulating, the state of being accumulated, or that
which is accumulated; as, an accumulation of earth, of sand, of
evils, of wealth, of honors.

2. (Law)

Defn: The concurrence of several titles to the same proof.
Accumulation of energy or power, the storing of energy by means of
weights lifted or masses put in motion; electricity stored.
 -- An accumulation of degrees (Eng. Univ.), the taking of several
together, or at smaller intervals than usual or than is allowed by
the rules.

ACCUMULATIVE
Ac*cu"mu*la*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by accumulation; serving to collect or amass;
cumulative; additional.
 -- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ness, n.

ACCUMULATOR
Ac*cu"mu*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who, or that which, accumulates, collects, or amasses.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: An apparatus by means of which energy or power can be stored,
such as the cylinder or tank for storing water for hydraulic
elevators, the secondary or storage battery used for accumulating the
energy of electrical charges, etc.

3. A system of elastic springs for relieving the strain upon a rope,
as in deep-sea dredging.

ACCURACY
Ac"cu*ra*cy (#; 277), n. Etym: [See Accurate.]

Defn: The state of being accurate; freedom from mistakes, this
exemption arising from carefulness; exact conformity to truth, or to
a rule or model; precision; exactness; nicety; correctness; as, the
value of testimony depends on its accuracy.
The professed end [of logic] is to teach men to think, to judge, and
to reason, with precision and accuracy. Reid.
The accuracy with which the piston fits the sides. Lardner.

ACCURATE
Ac"cu*rate, a. Etym: [L. accuratus, p. p. and a., fr. accurare to
take care of; ad + curare to take care, cura care. See Cure.]

1. In exact or careful conformity to truth, or to some standard of
requirement, the result of care or pains; free from failure, error,
or defect; exact; as, an accurate calculator; an accurate measure;
accurate expression, knowledge, etc.

2. Precisely fixed; executed with care; careful. [Obs.]
Those conceive the celestial bodies have more accurate influences
upon these things below. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Correct; exact; just; nice; particular.
 -- Accurate, Correct, Exact, Precise. We speak of a thing as correct
with reference to some rule or standard of comparison; as, a correct
account, a correct likeness, a man of correct deportment. We speak of
a thing as accurate with reference to the care bestowed upon its
execution, and the increased correctness to be expected therefrom;
as, an accurate statement, an accurate detail of particulars. We
speak of a thing as exact with reference to that perfected state of a
thing in which there is no defect and no redundance; as, an exact
coincidence, the exact truth, an exact likeness. We speak of a thing
as precise when we think of it as strictly conformed to some rule or
model, as if cut down thereto; as a precise conformity instructions;
precisely right; he was very precise in giving his directions.

ACCURATELY
Ac"cu*rate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accurate manner; exactly; precisely; without error or
defect.

ACCURATENESS
Ac"cu*rate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being accurate; accuracy; exactness;
nicety; precision.

ACCURSE
Ac*curse", v. t. Etym: [OE. acursien, acorsien; pref. a + cursien to
curse. See Curse.]

Defn: To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; to
curse; to execrate; to anathematize.
And the city shall be accursed. Josh. vi. 17.
Thro' you, my life will be accurst. Tennyson.

ACCURSED; ACCURST
Ac*cursed", Ac*curst", p. p. & a.

Defn: Doomed to destruction or misery; cursed; hence, bad enough to
be under the curse; execrable; detestable; exceedingly hateful; --
as, an accursed deed. Shak.
 -- Ac*curs"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Ac*curs"ed*ness, n.

ACCUSABLE
Ac*cus"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. accusabilis: cf. F. accusable.]

Defn: Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime or
fault; blamable; -- with of.

ACCUSAL
Ac*cus"al, n.

Defn: Accusation. [R.] Byron.

ACCUSANT
Ac*cus"ant, n. Etym: [L. accusans, p. pr. of accusare: cf. F.
accusant.]

Defn: An accuser. Bp. Hall.

ACCUSATION
Ac`cu*sa"tion, n. Etym: [OF. acusation, F. accusation, L. accusatio,
fr. accusare. See Accuse.]

1. The act of accusing or charging with a crime or with a lighter
offense.
We come not by the way of accusation To taint that honor every good
tongue blesses. Shak.

2. That of which one is accused; the charge of an offense or crime,
or the declaration containing the charge.
[They] set up over his head his accusation. Matt. xxvii. 37.

Syn.
 -- Impeachment; crimination; censure; charge.

ACCUSATIVAL
Ac*cu`sa*ti"val, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the accusative case.

ACCUSATIVE
Ac*cu"sa*tive, a. Etym: [F. accusatif, L. accusativus (in sense 2),
fr. accusare. See Accuse.]

1. Producing accusations; accusatory. "This hath been a very
accusative age." Sir E. Dering.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Applied to the case (as the fourth case of Latin and Greek
nouns) which expresses the immediate object on which the action or
influence of a transitive verb terminates, or the immediate object of
motion or tendency to, expressed by a preposition. It corresponds to
the objective case in English.

ACCUSATIVE
Ac*cu"sa*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The accusative case.

ACCUSATIVELY
Ac*cu"sa*tive*ly, adv.

1. In an accusative manner.

2. In relation to the accusative case in grammar.

ACCUSATORIAL
Ac*cu`sa*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Accusatory.

ACCUSATORIALLY
Ac*cu`sa*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way accusation.

ACCUSATORY
Ac*cu"sa*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. accusatorius, fr. accusare.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, an accusation; as, an accusatory
libel. Grote.

ACCUSE
Ac*cuse", n.

Defn: Accusation. [Obs.] Shak.

ACCUSE
Ac*cuse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accused; p. pr. & vb. n. Accusing.]
Etym: [OF. acuser, F. accuser, L. accusare, to call to account,
accuse; ad + causa cause, lawsuit. Cf. Cause.]

1. To charge with, or declare to have committed, a crime or offense;
(Law)

Defn: to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; -
- with of; as, to accuse one of a high crime or misdemeanor.
Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me. Acts
xxiv. 13.
We are accused of having persuaded Austria and Sardinia to lay down
their arms. Macaulay.

2. To charge with a fault; to blame; to censure.
Their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another.
Rom. ii. 15.

3. To betray; to show. Etym: [L.] Sir P. Sidney.

Syn.
 -- To charge; blame; censure; reproach; criminate; indict; impeach;
arraign.
 -- To Accuse, Charge, Impeach, Arraign. These words agree in
bringing home to a person the imputation of wrongdoing. To accuse is
a somewhat formal act, and is applied usually (though not
exclusively) to crimes; as, to accuse of treason. Charge is the most
generic. It may refer to a crime, a dereliction of duty, a fault,
etc.; more commonly it refers to moral delinquencies; as, to charge
with dishonesty or falsehood. To arraign is to bring (a person)
before a tribunal for trial; as, to arraign one before a court or at
the bar public opinion. To impeach is officially to charge with
misbehavior in office; as, to impeach a minister of high crimes. Both
impeach and arraign convey the idea of peculiar dignity or
impressiveness.

ACCUSED
Ac*cused", a.

Defn: Charged with offense; as, an accused person.

Note: Commonly used substantively; as, the accused, one charged with
an offense; the defendant in a criminal case.

ACCUSEMENT
Ac*cuse"ment, n. Etym: [OF. acusement. See Accuse.]

Defn: Accusation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACCUSER
Ac*cus"er, n. Etym: [OE. acuser, accusour; cf. OF. acuseor, fr. L.
accusator, fr. accusare.]

Defn: One who accuses; one who brings a charge of crime or fault.

ACCUSINGLY
Ac*cus"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an accusing manner.

ACCUSTOM
Ac*cus"tom, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Accustomed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Accustoming.] Etym: [OF. acostumer, acustumer, F. accoutumer; à (L.
ad) + OF. costume, F. coutume, custom. See Custom.]

Defn: To make familiar by use; to habituate, familiarize, or inure; -
- with to.
I shall always fear that he who accustoms himself to fraud in little
things, wants only opportunity to practice it in greater. Adventurer.

Syn.
 -- To habituate; inure; exercise; train.

ACCUSTOM
Ac*cus"tom, v. i.

1. To be wont. [Obs.] Carew.

2. To cohabit. [Obs.]
We with the best men accustom openly; you with the basest commit
private adulteries. Milton.

ACCUSTOM
Ac*cus"tom, n.

Defn: Custom. [Obs.] Milton.

ACCUSTOMABLE
Ac*cus"tom*a*ble, a.

Defn: Habitual; customary; wonted. "Accustomable goodness." Latimer.

ACCUSTOMABLY
Ac*cus"tom*a*bly, adv.

Defn: According to custom; ordinarily; customarily. Latimer.

ACCUSTOMANCE
Ac*cus"tom*ance, n. Etym: [OF. accoustumance, F. accoutumance.]

Defn: Custom; habitual use. [Obs.] Boyle.

ACCUSTOMARILY
Ac*cus"tom*a*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: Customarily. [Obs.]

ACCUSTOMARY
Ac*cus"tom*a*ry, a.

Defn: Usual; customary. [Archaic] Featley.

ACCUSTOMED
Ac*cus"tomed, a.

1. Familiar through use; usual; customary. "An accustomed action."
Shak.

2. Frequented by customers. [Obs.] "A well accustomed shop."
Smollett.

ACCUSTOMEDNESS
Ac*cus"tomed*ness, n.

Defn: Habituation.
Accustomedness to sin hardens the heart. Bp. Pearce.

ACE
Ace, n.; pl. Aces. Etym: [OE. as, F. as, fr. L. as, assis, unity,
copper coin, the unit of coinage. Cf. As.]

1. A unit; a single point or spot on a card or die; the card or die
so marked; as, the ace of diamonds.

2. Hence: A very small quantity or degree; a particle; an atom; a
jot.
I 'll not wag an ace further. Dryden.
To bate an ace, to make the least abatement. [Obs.] -- Within an ace
of, very near; on the point of. W. Irving.

ACELDAMA
A*cel"da*ma, n. Etym: [Gr. okel damo the field of blood.]

Defn: The potter's field, said to have lain south of Jerusalem,
purchased with the bribe which Judas took for betraying his Master,
and therefore called the field of blood. Fig.: A field of bloodshed.
The system of warfare . . . which had already converted immense
tracts into one universal aceldama. De Quincey.

ACENTRIC
A*cen"tric, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Not centered; without a center.

ACEPHAL
Ac"e*phal, n. Etym: [Gr. acéphale, LL. acephalus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Acephala.

ACEPHALA
A*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Acephal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: That division of the Mollusca which includes the bivalve
shells, like the clams and oysters; -- so called because they have no
evident head. Formerly the group included the Tunicata, Brachiopoda,
and sometimes the Bryozoa. See Mollusca.

ACEPHALAN
A*ceph"a*lan, n.

Defn: Same as Acephal.

ACEPHALAN
A*ceph"a*lan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the Acephala.

ACEPHALI
A*ceph"a*li, n. pl. Etym: [LL., pl. of acephalus. See Acephal.]

1. A fabulous people reported by ancient writers to have heads.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)
(a) A Christian sect without a leader.
(b) Bishops and certain clergymen not under regular diocesan control.

3. A class of levelers in the time of K. Henry I.

ACEPHALIST
A*ceph"a*list, n.

Defn: One who acknowledges no head or superior. Dr. Gauden.

ACEPHALOCYST
A*ceph"a*lo*cyst, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A larval entozoön in the form of a subglobular or oval vesicle,
or hy datid, filled with fluid, sometimes found in the tissues of man
and the lower animals; -- so called from the absence of a head or
visible organs on the vesicle. These cysts are the immature stages of
certain tapeworms. Also applied to similar cysts of different origin.

ACEPHALOCYSTIC
A*ceph`a*lo*cys"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the acephalocysts.

ACEPHALOUS
A*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [See Acephal.]

1. Headless.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without a distinct head; -- a term applied to bivalve mollusks.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the style spring from the base, instead of from the
apex, as is the case in certain ovaries.

4. Without a leader or chief.

5. Wanting the beginning.
A false or acephalous structure of sentence. De Quincey.

6. (Pros.)

Defn: Deficient and the beginning, as a line of poetry. Brande.

ACEQUIA
A*ce"qui*a, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A canal or trench for irrigating land. [Sp. Amer.]

ACERATE
Ac"er*ate, n. Etym: [See Aceric.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of aceric acid with a salifiable base.

ACERATE
Ac"er*ate, a.

Defn: Acerose; needle-shaped.

ACERB
A*cerb", a. Etym: [L. acerbus, fr. acer sharp: cf. F. acerbe. See
Acrid.]

Defn: Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharp
and harsh.

ACERBATE
A*cerb"ate, v. t. Etym: [L. acerbatus, p. p. of acerbare, fr.
acerbus.]

Defn: To sour; to imbitter; to irritate.

ACERBIC
A*cerb"ic, a.

Defn: Sour or severe.

ACERBITUDE
A*cerb"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. acerbitudo, fr. acerbus.]

Defn: Sourness and harshness. [Obs.] Bailey.

ACERBITY
A*cerb"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. acerbité, L. acerbitas, fr. acerbus. See
Acerb.]

1. Sourness of taste, with bitterness and astringency, like that of
unripe fruit.

2. Harshness, bitterness, or severity; as, acerbity of temper, of
language, of pain. Barrow.

ACERIC
A*cer"ic, a. Etym: [L. acer maple.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid.
Ure.

ACEROSE
Ac"er*ose`, a. Etym: [(a) L. acerosus chaffy, fr. acus, gen. aceris,
chaff; (b) as if fr. L. acus needle: cf. F. acéreux.] (Bot.)
(a) Having the nature of chaff; chaffy.
(b) Needle-shaped, having a sharp, rigid point, as the leaf of the
pine.

ACEROUS
Ac"er*ous, a.

Defn: Same as Acerose.

ACEROUS
Ac"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. &a; priv. + keras a horn.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Destitute of tentacles, as certain mollusks.
(b) Without antennæ, as some insects.

ACERVAL
A*cer"val, a. Etym: [L. acervalis, fr. acervus heap.]

Defn: Pertaining to a heap. [Obs.]

ACERVATE
A*cer"vate, v. t. Etym: [L. acervatus, p. p. of acervare to heap up,
fr. acervus heap.]

Defn: To heap up. [Obs.]

ACERVATE
A*cer"vate, a.

Defn: Heaped, or growing in heaps, or closely compacted clusters.

ACERVATION
Ac`er*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. acervatio.]

Defn: A heaping up; accumulation. [R.] Johnson.

ACERVATIVE
A*cer"va*tive, a.

Defn: Heaped up; tending to heap up.

ACERVOSE
A*cer"vose, a.

Defn: Full of heaps. [R.] Bailey.

ACERVULINE
A*cer"vu*line, a.

Defn: Resembling little heaps.

ACESCENCE; ACESCENCY
A*ces"cence, A*ces"cen*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acescence. See Acescent.]

Defn: The quality of being acescent; the process of acetous
fermentation; a moderate degree of sourness. Johnson.

ACESCENT
A*ces"cent, a. Etym: [L. acescens, -entis, p. pr. of acescere to turn
sour; inchoative of acere to be sour: cf. F. acescent. See Acid.]

Defn: Turning sour; readily becoming tart or acid; slightly sour.
Faraday.

ACESCENT
A*ces"cent, n.

Defn: A substance liable to become sour.

ACETABLE
Ac"e*ta*ble, n.

Defn: An acetabulum; or about one eighth of a pint. [Obs.] Holland.

ACETABULAR
Ac`e*tab"u*lar, a.

Defn: Cup-shaped; saucer-shaped; acetabuliform.

ACETABULIFERA
Ac`e*tab`u*lif"e*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Acetabuliferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Cephalopoda in which the arms are furnished
with cup-shaped suckers, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopus;
the Dibranchiata. See Cephalopoda.

ACETABULIFEROUS
Ac`e*tab`u*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. acetablum a little cup + -
ferous.]

Defn: Furnished with fleshy cups for adhering to bodies, as
cuttlefish, etc.

ACETABULIFORM
Ac`e*tab"u*li*form, a. Etym: [L. acetabulum + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a shallow; saucer-shaped; as, an acetabuliform
calyx. Gray.

ACETABULUM
Ac`e*tab"u*lum, n. Etym: [L., a little saucer for vinegar, fr. acetum
vinegar, fr. acere to be sour.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A vinegar cup; socket of the hip bone; a measure of about one
eighth of a pint, etc.

2. (Anat.)
(a) The bony cup which receives the head of the thigh bone.
(b) The cavity in which the leg of an insect is inserted at its
articulation with the body.
(c) A sucker of the sepia or cuttlefish and related animals.
(d) The large posterior sucker of the leeches.
(e) One of the lobes of the placenta in ruminating animals.

ACETAL
Ac"e*tal, n. Etym: [Acetic + alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidation
of alcohol under the influence of platinum black.

ACETALDEHYDE
Ac`et*al"de*hyde, n.

Defn: Acetic aldehyde. See Aldehyde.

ACETAMIDE
Ac`et*am"ide, n. Etym: [Acetyl + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline solid, from ammonia by replacement of an
equivalent of hydrogen by acetyl.

ACETANILIDE
Ac`et*an"i*lide, n. Etym: [Acetyl + anilide.] (Med.)

Defn: A compound of aniline with acetyl, used to allay fever or pain;
-- called also antifebrine.

ACETARIOUS
Ac`e*ta"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. acetaria, n. pl., salad, fr. acetum
vinegar, fr. acere to be sour.]

Defn: Used in salads; as, acetarious plants.

ACETARY
Ac"e*ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. acetaria salad plants.]

Defn: An acid pulp in certain fruits, as the pear. Grew.

ACETATE
Ac"e*tate, n. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar, fr. acere to be sour.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the union of acetic acid with a base or
positive radical; as, acetate of lead, acetate of potash.

ACETATED
Ac"e*ta`ted, a.

Defn: Combined with acetic acid.

ACETIC
A*ce"tic (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar, fr. acere to be
sour.] (Chem.)
(a) Of a pertaining to vinegar; producing vinegar; producing vinegar;
as, acetic fermentation.
(b) Pertaining to, containing, or derived from, acetyl, as acetic
ether, acetic acid. The latter is the acid to which the sour taste of
vinegar is due.

ACETIFICATION
A*cet`i*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting,
or of becoming converted, into vinegar.

ACETIFIER
A*cet"i*fi`er, n.

Defn: An apparatus for hastening acetification. Knight.

ACETIFY
A*cet"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acetified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acetifying.] Etym: [L. acetum vinegar + -fly.]

Defn: To convert into acid or vinegar.

ACETIFY
A*cet"i*fy, v. i.

Defn: To turn acid. Encyc. Dom. Econ.

ACETIMETER
Ac`e*tim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar + -meter: cf. F.
acétimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for estimating the amount of acetic acid in
vinegar or in any liquid containing acetic acid.

ACETIMETRY
Ac`e*tim"e*try, n.

Defn: The act or method of ascertaining the strength of vinegar, or
the proportion of acetic acid contained in it. Ure.

ACETIN
Ac"e*tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of acetic acid with glycerin. Brande & C.

ACETIZE
Ac"e*tize, v. i.

Defn: To acetify. [R.]

ACETOL
Ac"e*tol, n.  [Acetic + -ol as in alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Methyl ketol; also, any of various homologues of the same.

ACETOMETER
Ac`e*tom"e*ter, n.

Defn: Same as Acetimeter. Brande & C.

ACETONAEMIA; ACETONEMIA
Ac`e*to*næ"mi*a, Ac`e*to*ne"mi*a, n. [NL. See Acetone; Hæma-.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition characterized by the presence of acetone in
the blood, as in diabetes.

ACETONE
Ac"e*tone, n. Etym: [See Acetic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A volatile liquid consisting of three parts of carbon, six of
hydrogen, and one of oxygen; pyroacetic spirit, -- obtained by the
distillation of certain acetates, or by the destructive distillation
of citric acid, starch, sugar, or gum, with quicklime.

Note: The term in also applied to a number of bodies of similar
constitution, more frequently called ketones. See Ketone.

ACETONIC
Ac`e*ton"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to acetone; as, acetonic bodies.

ACETONURIA
Ac`e*to*nu"ri*a, n. [NL. See Acetone; Urine.] (Med.)

Defn: Excess of acetone in the urine, as in starvation or diabetes.

ACETOPHENONE
Ac`e*to*phe"none, n.  [Acetic + phenyl + one.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline ketone, CH3COC6H5, which may be obtained by the
dry distillation of a mixture of the calcium salts of acetic and
benzoic acids. It is used as a hypnotic under the name of hypnone.

ACETOSE
Ac"e*tose, a.

Defn: Sour like vinegar; acetous.

ACETOSITY
Ac`e*tos"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. acetositas. See Acetous.]

Defn: The quality of being acetous; sourness.

ACETOUS
A*ce"tous (#; 277), a. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar, fr. acere to be
sour.]

1. Having a sour taste; sour; acid. "An acetous spirit." Boyle. "A
liquid of an acetous kind." Bp. Lowth.

2. Causing, or connected with, acetification; as, acetous
fermentation. Acetous acid, a name formerly given to vinegar.

ACETYL
Ac"e*tyl, n. Etym: [L. acetum vinegar + Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts of
carbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Its hydroxide is
acetic acid.

ACETYLENE
A*cet"y*lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A gaseous compound of carbon and hydrogen, in the proportion of
two atoms of the former to two of the latter. It is a colorless gas,
with a peculiar, unpleasant odor, and is produced for use as an
illuminating gas in a number of ways, but chiefly by the action of
water on calcium carbide. Its light is very brilliant. Watts.

ACH; ACHE
Ach, Ache, n. Etym: [F. ache, L. apium parsley.]

Defn: A name given to several species of plants; as, smallage, wild
celery, parsley. [Obs.] Holland.

ACHAEAN; ACHAIAN
A*chæ"an, A*cha"ian a. Etym: [L. Achaeus, Achaius; Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Achaia in Greece; also, Grecian.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Achaia; a Greek.

ACHARNEMENT
A*char"ne*ment, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Savage fierceness; ferocity.

ACHATE
Ach"ate, n.

Defn: An agate. [Obs.] Evelyn.

ACHATE
A*chate", n. Etym: [F. achat purchase. See Cates.]

1. Purchase; bargaining. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. pl.

Defn: Provisions. Same as Cates. [Obs.] Spenser.

ACHATINA
Ach`a*ti"na, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of land snails, often large, common in the warm parts
of America and Africa.

ACHATOUR
A*cha*tour", n. Etym: [See Cater.]

Defn: Purveyor; acater. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ACHE
Ache, n. Etym: [OE. ache, AS. æce, ece, fr. acan to ache. See Ache,
v. i.]

Defn: Continued pain, as distinguished from sudden twinges, or
spasmodic pain. "Such an ache in my bones." Shak.

Note: Often used in composition, as, a headache, an earache, a
toothache.

ACHE
Ache, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ached; p. pr. & vb. n. Aching.] Etym: [OE.
aken, AS. acan, both strong verbs, AS. acan, imp. oc, p. p. acen, to
ache; perh. orig. to drive, and akin to agent.]

Defn: To suffer pain; to have, or be in, pain, or in continued pain;
to be distressed. "My old bones ache." Shak.
The sins that in your conscience ache. Keble.

ACHEAN
A*che"an, a & n.

Defn: See Achæan, Achaian.

ACHENE; ACHENIUM
A*chene", A*che"ni*um n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A small, dry, indehiscent fruit, containing a single seed, as
in the buttercup; -- called a naked seed by the earlier botanists.
[Written also akene and achænium.]

ACHENIAL
A*che"ni*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an achene.

ACHERON
Ach"e*ron, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: A river in the Nether World or infernal regions; also, the
infernal regions themselves. By some of the English poets it was
supposed to be a flaming lake or gulf. Shak.

ACHERONTIC
Ach`e*ron"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Acheron; infernal; hence, dismal, gloomy;
moribund.

A CHEVAL
A` che*val". [F., lit., on horseback.]

Defn: Astride; with a part on each side; -- used specif. in
designating the position of an army with the wings separated by some
line of demarcation, as a river or road.

A position à cheval on a river is not one which a general willingly
assumes.
Swinton.

ACHIEVABLE
A*chiev"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being achieved. Barrow.

ACHIEVANCE
A*chiev"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. achevance.]

Defn: Achievement. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

ACHIEVE
A*chieve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Achieved; p. pr. & vb. n. Achieving.]
Etym: [OE. acheven, OF. achever, achiever, F. achever, to finish; à
(L. ad) + OF. chief, F. chef, end, head, fr. L. caput head. See
Chief.]

1. To carry on to a final close; to bring out into a perfected state;
to accomplish; to perform; -- as, to achieve a feat, an exploit, an
enterprise.
Supposing faculties and powers to be the same, far more may be
achieved in any line by the aid of a capital, invigorating motive
than without it. I. Taylor.

2. To obtain, or gain, as the result of exertion; to succeed in
gaining; to win.
Some are born great, some achieve greatness. Shak.
Thou hast achieved our liberty. Milton.

Note: [[Obs]., with a material thing as the aim.]
Show all the spoils by valiant kings achieved. Prior.
He hath achieved a maid That paragons description. Shak.

3. To finish; to kill. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- To accomplish; effect; fulfill; complete; execute; perform;
realize; obtain. See Accomplish.

ACHIEVEMENT
A*chieve"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. achèvement, E. Hatchment.]

1. The act of achieving or performing; an obtaining by exertion;
successful performance; accomplishment; as, the achievement of his
object.

2. A great or heroic deed; something accomplished by valor, boldness,
or praiseworthy exertion; a feat.
[The exploits] of the ancient saints . . . do far surpass the most
famous achievements of pagan heroes. Barrow.
The highest achievements of the human intellect. Macaulay.

3. (Her.)

Defn: An escutcheon or ensign armorial; now generally applied to the
funeral shield commonly called hatchment. Cussans.

ACHIEVER
A*chiev"er, n.

Defn: One who achieves; a winner.

ACHILLEAN
Ach`il*le"an, a.

Defn: Resembling Achilles, the hero of the Iliad; invincible.

ACHILLES' TENDON
A*chil"les' ten"don, n. Etym: [L. Achillis tendo.] (Anat.)

Defn: The strong tendon formed of the united tendons of the large
muscles in the calf of the leg, an inserted into the bone of the
heel; -- so called from the mythological account of Achilles being
held by the heel when dipped in the River Styx.

ACHILOUS
A*chi"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Without a lip.

ACHING
Ach"ing, a.

Defn: That aches; continuously painful. See Ache.
 -- Ach"ing*ly, adv.
The aching heart, the aching head. Longfellow.

ACHIOTE
A`chi*o"te, n. Etym: [Sp. achiote, fr. Indian achiotl.]

Defn: Seeds of the annotto tree; also, the coloring matter, annotto.

ACHLAMYDATE
A*chlam"y*date, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not possessing a mantle; -- said of certain gastropods.

ACHLAMYDEOUS
Ach`la*myd"e*ous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Naked; having no floral envelope, neither calyx nor corolla.

ACHOLIA
A*cho"li*a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Deficiency or want of bile.

ACHOLOUS
Ach"o*lous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Lacking bile.

ACHROMATIC
Ach`ro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. achromatique.]

1. (Opt.)

Defn: Free from color; transmitting light without decomposing it into
its primary colors.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Uncolored; not absorbing color from a fluid; -- said of tissue.
Achromatic lens (Opt.), a lens composed usually of two separate
lenses, a convex and concave, of substances having different
refractive and dispersive powers, as crown and flint glass, with the
curvatures so adjusted that the chromatic aberration produced by the
one is corrected by other, and light emerges from the compound lens
undecomposed.
 -- Achromatic prism. See Prism.
 -- Achromatic telescope, or microscope, one in which the chromatic
aberration is corrected, usually by means of a compound or achromatic
object glass, and which gives images free from extraneous color.

ACHROMATICALLY
Ach`ro*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an achromatic manner.

ACHROMATICITY
Ach`ro*ma*tic"i*ty, n.

Defn: Achromatism.

ACHROMATIN
A*chro"ma*tin, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Tissue which is not stained by fluid dyes. W. Flemming.

ACHROMATISM
A*chro"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. achromatisme.]

Defn: The state or quality of being achromatic; as, the achromatism
of a lens; achromaticity. Nichol.

ACHROMATIZATION
A*chro`ma*ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. achromatisation.]

Defn: The act or process of achromatizing.

ACHROMATIZE
A*chro"ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Achromatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Achromatizing.] Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To deprive of color; to make achromatic.

ACHROMATOPSY
A*chro"ma*top"sy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism.

ACHROMATOUS
A*chro"ma*tous, a. [See Ahromatic.]

Defn: Lacking, or deficient in, color; as, achromatous blood.

ACHROMIC
A*chro"mic, a. [Gr.  colorless;  priv. +  color.]

Defn: Free from color; colorless; as, in Physiol. Chem., the achromic
point of a starch solution acted upon by an amylolytic enzyme is the
point at which it fails to give any color with iodine.

ACHRONIC
A*chron"ic, a.

Defn: See Acronyc.

ACHROODEXTRIN; ACHROOEDEXTRIN
Ach`ro*ö*dex"trin, n. Etym: [Gr. dextrin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Dextrin not colorable by iodine. See Dextrin.

ACHROOUS
Ach"ro*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Colorless; achromatic.

ACHYLOUS
A*chy"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Without chyle.

ACHYMOUS
A*chy"mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Without chyme.

ACICULA
A*cic"u*la, n.; pl. Aciculæ. Etym: [L., a small needle, dimin. of
acus needle.] (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: One of the needlelike or bristlelike spines or prickles of some
animals and plants; also, a needlelike crystal.

ACICULAR
A*cic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Needle-shaped; slender like a needle or bristle, as some leaves
or crystals; also, having sharp points like needless. A*cic"u*lar*ly,
adv.

ACICULATE; ACICULATED
A*cic"u*late, A*cic"u*la"ted a. (Nat. Hist.)
(a) Furnished with aciculæ.
(b) Acicular.
(c) Marked with fine irregular streaks as if scratched by a needle.
Lindley.

ACICULIFORM
A*cic"u*li*form, a. Etym: [L. acicula needle + -form.]

Defn: Needle-shaped; acicular.

ACICULITE
A*cic"u*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Needle ore. Brande & C.

ACID
Ac"id, a. Etym: [L. acidus sour, fr. the root ak to be sharp: cf. F.
acide. Cf. Acute.]

1. Sour, sharp, or biting to the taste; tart; having the taste of
vinegar: as, acid fruits or liquors. Also fig.: Sour-tempered.
He was stern and his face as acid as ever. A. Trollope.

2. Of or pertaining to an acid; as, acid reaction.

ACID
Ac"id, n.

1. A sour substance.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of compounds, generally but not always
distinguished by their sour taste, solubility in water, and reddening
of vegetable blue or violet colors. They are also characterized by
the power of destroying the distinctive properties of alkalies or
bases, combining with them to form salts, at the same time losing
their own peculiar properties. They all contain hydrogen, united with
a more negative element or radical, either alone, or more generally
with oxygen, and take their names from this negative element or
radical. Those which contain no oxygen are sometimes called hydracids
in distinction from the others which are called oxygen acids or
oxacids.

Note: In certain cases, sulphur, selenium, or tellurium may take the
place of oxygen, and the corresponding compounds are called
respectively sulphur acids or sulphacids, selenium acids, or
tellurium acids. When the hydrogen of an acid is replaced by a
positive element or radical, a salt is formed, and hence acids are
sometimes named as salts of hydrogen; as hydrogen nitrate for nitric
acid, hydrogen sulphate for sulphuric acid, etc. In the old chemistry
the name acid was applied to the oxides of the negative or
nonmetallic elements, now sometimes called anhydrides.

ACIDIC
A*cid"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic. an
acidic solution.

ACIDIFEROUS
Ac`id*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. acidus sour + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or yielding an acid.

ACIDIFIABLE
A*cid"i*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acidified, or converted into an acid.

ACIDIFIC
Ac`id*if"ic, a.

Defn: Producing acidity; converting into an acid. Dana.

ACIDIFICATION
A*cid`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acidification.]

Defn: The act or process of acidifying, or changing into an acid.

ACIDIFIER
A*cid"i*fi`er, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A simple or compound principle, whose presence is necessary to
produce acidity, as oxygen, chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc.

ACIDIFY
A*cid"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acidified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acidifying.] Etym: [L. acidus sour, acid + -fy: cf. F. acidifier.]

1. To make acid; to convert into an acid; as, to acidify sugar.

2. To sour; to imbitter.
His thin existence all acidified into rage. Carlyle.

ACIDIMETER
Ac`id*im"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. acidus acid + -meter.] (Chem.)

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the strength of acids. Ure.

ACIDIMETRY
Ac`id*im"e*try, n. Etym: [L. acidus acid + -metry.] (Chem.)

Defn: The measurement of the strength of acids, especially by a
chemical process based on the law of chemical combinations, or the
fact that, to produce a complete reaction, a certain definite weight
of reagent is required.
 -- Ac`id*i*met"ric*al, a.

ACIDITY
A*cid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. acidites, fr. acidus: cf. F. acidité. See
Acid.]

Defn: The quality of being sour; sourness; tartness; sharpness to the
taste; as, the acidity of lemon juice.

ACIDLY
Ac"id*ly, adv.

Defn: Sourly; tartly.

ACIDNESS
Ac"id*ness, n.

Defn: Acidity; sourness.

ACID PROCESS
Ac"id proc"ess. (Iron Metal.)

Defn: That variety of either the Bessemer or the open-hearth process
in which the converter or hearth is lined with acid, that is, highly
siliceous, material. Opposed to basic process.

ACIDULATE
A*cid"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acidulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acidulating.] Etym: [Cf. F. aciduler. See Acidulous.]

Defn: To make sour or acid in a moderate degree; to sour somewhat.
Arbuthnot.

ACIDULENT
A*cid"u*lent, a.

Defn: Having an acid quality; sour; acidulous. "With anxious,
acidulent face." Carlyle.

ACIDULOUS
A*cid"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. acidulus, dim. of acidus. See Acid.]

Defn: Slightly sour; sub-acid; sourish; as, an acidulous tincture. E.
Burke. Acidulous mineral waters, such as contain carbonic anhydride.

ACIERAGE
Ac`i*er*age, n. Etym: [F. aciérage, fr. acier steel.]

Defn: The process of coating the surface of a metal plate (as a
stereotype plate) with steellike iron by means of voltaic
electricity; steeling.

ACIFORM
Ac"i*form, a. Etym: [L. acus needle + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a needle.

ACINACEOUS
Ac"i*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. acinus a grape, grapestone.] (Bot.)

Defn: Containing seeds or stones of grapes, or grains like them.

ACINACES
A*cin"a*ces, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Anc. Hist.)

Defn: A short sword or saber.

ACINACIFORM
Ac`i*nac"i*form, a. Etym: [L. acinaces a short sword + -form: cf. F.
acinaciforme.] (Bot.)

Defn: Scimeter-shaped; as, an acinaciform leaf.

ACINESIA
Ac`i*ne"si*a, n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Akinesia.

ACINETAE
Ac`i*ne"tæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of suctorial Infusoria, which in the adult stage are
stationary. See Suctoria.

ACINETIFORM
Ac`i*net"i*form, a. Etym: [Acinetæ + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling the Acinetæ.

ACINIFORM
A*cin"i*form, a. Etym: [L. acinus a grape, grapestone + -form: cf. F.
acinoforme.]

1. Having the form of a cluster of grapes; clustered like grapes.

2. Full of small kernels like a grape.

ACINOSE; ACINOUS
Ac"i*nose`, Ac"i*nous a. Etym: [L. acinosus, fr. acinus grapestone.]

Defn: Consisting of acini, or minute granular concretions; as,
acinose or acinous glands. Kirwan.

ACINUS
Ac"i*nus, n.; pl. Acini. Etym: [L., grape, grapestone.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) One of the small grains or drupelets which make up some kinds of
fruit, as the blackberry, raspberry, etc.
(b) A grapestone.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the granular masses which constitute a racemose or
compound gland, as the pancreas; also, one of the saccular recesses
in the lobules of a racemose gland. Quain.

ACIPENSER
Ac`i*pen"ser, n. Etym: [L., the name of a fish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons, having the
body armed with bony scales, and the mouth on the under side of the
head. See Sturgeon.

ACIURGY
Ac"i*ur`gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Operative surgery.

ACKNOW
Ac*know", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + know; AS. oncnawan.]

1. To recognize. [Obs.] "You will not be acknown, sir." B. Jonson.

2. To acknowledge; to confess. [Obs.] Chaucer. To be acknown (often
with of or on), to acknowledge; to confess. [Obs.]
We say of a stubborn body that standeth still in the denying of his
fault, This man will not acknowledge his fault, or, He will not be
acknown of his fault. Sir T. More.

ACKNOWLEDGE
Ac*knowl"edge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acknowledged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acknowledging.] Etym: [Prob. fr. pref. a- + the verb knowledge. See
Knowledge, and ci. Acknow.]

1. To of or admit the knowledge of; to recognize as a fact or truth;
to declare one's belief in; as, to acknowledge the being of a God.
I acknowledge my transgressions. Ps. li. 3.
For ends generally acknowledged to be good. Macaulay.

2. To own or recognize in a particular character or relationship; to
admit the claims or authority of; to give recognition to.
In all thy ways acknowledge Him. Prov. iii. 6.
By my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee. Shak.

3. To own with gratitude or as a benefit or an obligation; as, to
acknowledge a favor, the receipt of a letter.
They his gifts acknowledged none. Milton.

4. To own as genuine; to assent to, as a legal instrument, to give it
validity; to avow or admit in legal form; as, to acknowledgea deed.

Syn.
 -- To avow; proclaim; recognize; own; admit; allow; concede;
confess.
 -- Acknowledge, Recognize. Acknowledge is opposed to keep back, or
conceal, and supposes that something had been previously known to us
(though perhaps not to others) which we now feel bound to lay open or
make public. Thus, a man acknowledges a secret marriage; one who has
done wrong acknowledges his fault; and author acknowledges his
obligation to those who have aided him; we acknowledge our ignorance.
Recognize supposes that we have either forgotten or not had the
evidence of a thing distinctly before our minds, but that now we know
it (as it were) anew, or receive and admit in on the ground of the
evidence it brings. Thus, we recognize a friend after a long absence.
We recognize facts, principles, truths, etc., when their evidence is
brought up fresh to the mind; as, bad men usually recognize the
providence of God in seasons of danger. A foreign minister, consul,
or agent, of any kind, is recognized on the ground of his producing
satisfactory credentials. See also Confess.

ACKNOWLEDGEDLY
Ac*knowl"edged*ly, adv.

Defn: Confessedly.

ACKNOWLEDGER
Ac*knowl"edg*er, n.

Defn: One who acknowledges.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Ac*knowl"edg*ment, n.

1. The act of acknowledging; admission; avowal; owning; confession.
"An acknowledgment of fault." Froude.

2. The act of owning or recognized in a particular character or
relationship; recognition as regards the existence, authority, truth,
or genuineness.
Immediately upon the acknowledgment of the Christian faith, the
eunuch was baptized by Philip. Hooker.

3. The owning of a benefit received; courteous recognition;
expression of thanks. Shak.

4. Something given or done in return for a favor, message, etc.
Smollett.

5. A declaration or avowal of one's own act, to give it legal
validity; as, the acknowledgment of a deed before a proper officer.
Also, the certificate of the officer attesting such declaration.
Acknowledgment money, in some parts of England, a sum paid by
copyhold tenants, on the death of their landlords, as an
acknowledgment of their new lords. Cowell.

Syn.
 -- Confession; concession; recognition; admission; avowal;
recognizance.

ACLINIC
A*clin"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics.)

Defn: Without inclination or dipping; -- said the magnetic needle
balances itself horizontally, having no dip. The aclinic line is also
termed the magnetic equator. Prof. August.

ACME
Ac"me, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. The top or highest point; the culmination.
The very acme and pitch of life for epic poetry. Pope.
The moment when a certain power reaches the acme of its supremacy. I.
Taylor.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The crisis or height of a disease.

3. Mature age; full bloom of life. B. Jonson.

ACNE
Ac"ne, n. Etym: [NL., prob. a corruption of Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in the
sebaceous glands.

ACNODAL
Ac*no"dal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to acnodes.

ACNODE
Ac"node, n. Etym: [L. acus needle + E. node.] (Geom.)

Defn: An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coördinates
satisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered as
belonging to the curve.

ACOCK
A*cock", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + cock.]

Defn: In a cocked or turned up fashion.

ACOCKBILL
A*cock"bill`, adv. Etym: [Prefix a- + cock + bill: with bills cocked
up.] (Naut.)
(a) Hanging at the cathead, ready to let go, as an anchor.
(b) Topped up; having one yardarm higher than the other.

ACOLD
A*cold", a. Etym: [Prob. p. p. of OE. acolen to grow cold or cool,
AS. acolian to grow cold; pref. a- (cf. Goth. er-, orig. meaning out)
+ colian to cool. See Cool.]

Defn: Cold. [Obs.] "Poor Tom's acold." Shak.

ACOLOGIC
Ac`o*log"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to acology.

ACOLOGY
A*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Materia medica; the science of remedies.

ACOLOTHIST
A*col"o*thist, n.

Defn: See Acolythist.

ACOLYCTINE
Ac`o*lyc"tine, n. Etym: [From the name of the plant.] (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base, in the form of a white powder, obtained from
Aconitum lycoctonum. Eng. Cyc.

ACOLYTE
Ac`o*lyte, n. Etym: [LL. acolythus, acoluthus, Gr. acolyte.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: One who has received the highest of the four minor orders in
the Catholic church, being ordained to carry the wine and water and
the lights at the Mass.

2. One who attends; an assistant. "With such chiefs, and with James
and John as acolytes." Motley.

ACOLYTH
Ac"o*lyth, n.

Defn: Same as Acolyte.

ACOLYTHIST
A*col"y*thist, n.

Defn: An acolyte. [Obs.]

ACONDDYLOSE; ACONDYLOUS
A*cond"dy*lose`, A*con"dy*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Being without joints; jointless.

ACONITAL
Ac`o*ni"tal, a.

Defn: Of the nature of aconite.

ACONITE
Ac"o*nite, n. Etym: [L. aconitum, Gr. aconit.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The herb wolfsbane, or monkshood; -- applied to any plant of
the genus Aconitum (tribe Hellebore), all the species of which are
poisonous.

2. An extract or tincture obtained from Aconitum napellus, used as a
poison and medicinally. Winter aconite, a plant (Eranthis hyemalis)
allied to the aconites.

ACONITIA
Ac`o*ni"ti*a, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Aconitine.

ACONITIC
Ac`o*nit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to aconite.

ACONITINE
A*con"i*tine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An intensely poisonous alkaloid, extracted from aconite.

ACONITUM
Ac`o*ni"tum, n. Etym: [L. See Aconite.]

Defn: The poisonous herb aconite; also, an extract from it.
Strong As aconitum or rash gunpowder. Shak.

ACONTIA
A*con"ti*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Threadlike defensive organs, composed largely of nettling cells
(cnidæ), thrown out of the mouth or special pores of certain Actiniæ
when irritated.

ACONTIAS
A*con"ti*as, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Anciently, a snake, called dart snake; now, one of a genus of
reptiles closely allied to the lizards.

ACOPIC
A*cop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. priv. + (Med.)

Defn: Relieving weariness; restorative.

ACORN
A"corn, n. Etym: [AS. æcern, fr. æcer field, acre; akin to D. aker
acorn, Ger. ecker, Icel. akarn, Dan. agern, Goth. akran fruit, akrs
field; -- orig. fruit of the field. See Acre.]

1. The fruit of the oak, being an oval nut growing in a woody cup or
cupule.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A cone-shaped piece of wood on the point of the spindle above
the vane, on the mast-head.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Acorn-shell.

ACORN CUP
A"corn cup.

Defn: The involucre or cup in which the acorn is fixed.

ACORNED
A"corned, a.

1. Furnished or loaded with acorns.

2. Fed or filled with acorns. [R.] Shak.

ACORN-SHELL
A"corn-shell`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the sessile cirripeds; a barnacle of the genus Balanus.
See Barnacle.

ACOSMISM
A*cos"mism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A denial of the existence of the universe as distinct from God.

ACOSMIST
A*cos"mist, n. Etym: [See Acosmism.]

Defn: One who denies the existence of the universe, or of a universe
as distinct from God. G. H. Lewes.

ACOTYLEDON
A*cot`y*le"don (#; 277), n. Etym: [Gr. Cotyledon.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant which has no cotyledons, as the dodder and all
flowerless plants.

ACOTYLEDONOUS
A*cot`y*led"on*ous (#; 277), a.

Defn: Having no seed lobes, as the dodder; also applied to plants
which have no true seeds, as ferns, mosses, etc.

ACOUCHY
A*cou"chy, n. Etym: [F. acouchi, from the native name Guiana.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small species of agouti (Dasyprocta acouchy).

ACOUMETER
A*cou"me*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physics.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the acuteness of the sense of
hearing. Itard.

ACOUMETRY
A*cou"me*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.]

Defn: The measuring of the power or extent of hearing.

ACOUSTIC
A*cous"tic (#; 277), a. Etym: [F. acoustique, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the sense of hearing, the organs of hearing, or
the science of sounds; auditory. Acoustic duct, the auditory duct, or
external passage of the ear.
 -- Acoustic telegraph, a telegraph making audible signals; a
telephone.
 -- Acoustic vessels, brazen tubes or vessels, shaped like a bell,
used in ancient theaters to propel the voices of the actors, so as to
render them audible to a great distance.

ACOUSTIC
A*cous"tic, n.

Defn: A medicine or agent to assist hearing.

ACOUSTICAL
A*cous"tic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to acoustics.

ACOUSTICALLY
A*cous"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In relation to sound or to hearing. Tyndall.

ACOUSTICIAN
Ac`ous*ti"cian, n.

Defn: One versed in acoustics. Tyndall.

ACOUSTICS
A*cous"tics (#; 277), n. Etym: [Names of sciences in -ics, as,
acoustics, mathematics, etc., are usually treated as singular. See -
ics.] (Physics.)

Defn: The science of sounds, teaching their nature, phenomena, and
laws.
Acoustics, then, or the science of sound, is a very considerable
branch of physics. Sir J. Herschel.

Note: The science is, by some writers, divided, into diacoustics,
which explains the properties of sounds coming directly from the ear;
and catacoustica, which treats of reflected sounds or echoes.

ACQUAINT
Ac*quaint", a. Etym: [OF. acoint. See Acquaint, v. t.]

Defn: Acquainted. [Obs.]

ACQUAINT
Ac*quaint", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acquainted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acquainting.] Etym: [OE. aqueinten, acointen, OF. acointier, LL.
adcognitare, fr. L. ad + cognitus, p. p. of cognoscere to know; con-
+ noscere to know. See Quaint, Know.]

1. To furnish or give experimental knowledge of; to make (one) to
know; to make familiar; -- followed by with.
Before a man can speak on any subject, it is necessary to be
acquainted with it. Locke.
A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Isa. liii. 3.

2. To communicate notice to; to inform; to make cognizant; --
followed by with (formerly, also, by of), or by that, introducing the
intelligence; as, to acquaint a friend with the particulars of an
act.
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love. Shak.
I must acquaint you that I have received New dated letters from
Northumberland. Shak.

3. To familiarize; to accustom. [Obs.] Evelyn. To be acquainted with,
to be possessed of personal knowledge of; to be cognizant of; to be
more or less familiar with; to be on terms of social intercourse
with.

Syn.
 -- To inform; apprise; communicate; advise.

ACQUAINTABLE
Ac*quaint"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. acointable].

Defn: Easy to be acquainted with; affable. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

ACQUAINTANCE
Ac*quaint"ance, n. Etym: [OE. aqueintance, OF. acointance, fr.
acointier. See Acquaint.]

1. A state of being acquainted, or of having intimate, or more than
slight or superficial, knowledge; personal knowledge gained by
intercourse short of that of friendship or intimacy; as, I know the
man; but have no acquaintance with him.
Contract no friendship, or even acquaintance, with a guileful man.
Sir W. Jones.

2. A person or persons with whom one is acquainted.
Montgomery was an old acquaintance of Ferguson. Macaulay.

Note: In this sense the collective term acquaintance was formerly
both singular and plural, but it is now commonly singular, and has
the regular plural acquaintances. To be of acquaintance, to be
intimate.
 -- To take acquaintance of or with, to make the acquaintance of.
[Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Familiarity; intimacy; fellowship; knowledge.
 -- Acquaintance, Familiarity, Intimacy. These words mark different
degrees of closeness in social intercourse. Acquaintance arises from
occasional intercourse; as, our acquaintance has been a brief one. We
can speak of a slight or an intimate acquaintance. Familiarity is the
result of continued acquaintance. It springs from persons being
frequently together, so as to wear off all restraint and reserve; as,
the familiarity of old companions. Intimacy is the result of close
connection, and the freest interchange of thought; as, the intimacy
of established friendship.
Our admiration of a famous man lessens upon our nearer acquaintance
with him. Addison.
We contract at last such a familiarity with them as makes it
difficult and irksome for us to call off our minds. Atterbury.
It is in our power to confine our friendships and intimacies to men
of virtue. Rogers.

ACQUAINTANCESHIP
Ac*quaint"ance*ship, n.

Defn: A state of being acquainted; acquaintance. Southey.

ACQUAINTANT
Ac*quaint"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acointant, p. pr.]

Defn: An acquaintance. [R.] Swift.

ACQUAINTED
Ac*quaint"ed, a.

Defn: Personally known; familiar. See To be acquainted with, under
Acquaint, v. t.

ACQUAINTEDNESS
Ac*quaint"ed*ness, n.

Defn: State of being acquainted; degree of acquaintance. [R.] Boyle.

ACQUEST
Ac*quest", n. Etym: [OF. aquest, F. acquêt, fr. LL. acquestum,
acquisitum, for L. acquisitum, p. p. (used substantively) of
acquirere to acquire. See Acquire.]

1. Acquisition; the thing gained. [R.] Bacon.

2. (Law)

Defn: Property acquired by purchase, gift, or otherwise than by
inheritance. Bouvier.

ACQUIESCE
Ac`qui*esce", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Acquiesced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Acquiescing] Etym: [L. acquiescere; ad + quiescere to be quiet, fr.
quies rest: cf. F. acquiescer. See Quiet.]

1. To rest satisfied, or apparently satisfied, or to rest without
opposition and discontent (usually implying previous opposition or
discontent); to accept or consent by silence or by omitting to
object; -- followed by in, formerly also by with and to.
They were compelled to acquiesce in a government which they did not
regard as just. De Quincey.

2. To concur upon conviction; as, to acquiesce in an opinion; to
assent to; usually, to concur, not heartily but so far as to forbear
opposition.

Syn.
 -- To submit; comply; yield; assent; agree; consent; accede; concur;
conform; accept tacitly.

ACQUIESCENCE
Ac`qui*es"cence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. acquiescence.]

1. A silent or passive assent or submission, or a submission with
apparent content; -- distinguished from avowed consent on the one
hand, and on the other, from opposition or open discontent; quiet
satisfaction.

2. (Crim. Law)
(a) Submission to an injury by the party injured.
(b) Tacit concurrence in the action of another. Wharton. p. 17

ACQUIESCENCY
Ac`qui*es"cen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being acquiescent; acquiescence.

ACQUIESCENT
Ac`qui*es"cent, a. Etym: [L. acquiescens, -; p. pr.]

Defn: Resting satisfied or submissive; disposed tacitly to submit;
assentive; as, an acquiescent policy.

ACQUIESCENTLY
Ac`qui*es"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an acquiescent manner.

ACQUIET
Ac*qui"et, v. t. Etym: [LL. acquietare; L. ad + quies rest. See Quiet
and cf. Acquit.]

Defn: To quiet. [Obs.]
Acquiet his mind from stirring you against your own peace. Sir A.
Sherley.

ACQUIRABILITY
Ac*quir"a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being acquirable; attainableness. [R.] Paley.

ACQUIRABLE
Ac*quir"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acquired.

ACQUIRE
Ac*quire", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acquired; p. pr. & vb. n. Acquiring.]
Etym: [L. acquirere, acquisitum; ad + quarere to seek for. In OE. was
a verb aqueren, fr. the same, through OF. aquerre. See Quest..]

Defn: To gain, usually by one's own exertions; to get as one's own;
as, to acquire a title, riches, knowledge, skill, good or bad habits.
No virtue is acquired in an instant, but step by step. Barrow.
Descent is the title whereby a man, on the death of his ancestor,
acquires his estate, by right of representation, as his heir at law.
Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- To obtain; gain; attain; procure; win; earn; secure. See Obtain.

ACQUIREMENT
Ac*quire"ment, n.

Defn: The act of acquiring, or that which is acquired; attainment.
"Rules for the acquirement of a taste." Addison.
His acquirements by industry were . . . enriched and enlarged by many
excellent endowments of nature. Hayward.

Syn.
 -- Acquisition, Acquirement. Acquirement is used in opposition to a
natural gift or talent; as, eloquence, and skill in music and
painting, are acquirements; genius is the gift or endowment of
nature. It denotes especially personal attainments, in opposition to
material or external things gained, which are more usually called
acquisitions; but this distinction is not always observed.

ACQUIRER
Ac*quir"er, n.

Defn: A person who acquires.

ACQUIRY
Ac*quir"y, n.

Defn: Acquirement. [Obs.] Barrow.

ACQUISITE
Ac"qui*site, a. Etym: [L. acquisitus, p. p. of acquirere. See
Acquire.]

Defn: Acquired. [Obs.] Burton.

ACQUISITION
Ac`qui*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. acquisitio, fr. acquirere: cf. F.
acquisition. See Acquire.]

1. The act or process of acquiring.
The acquisition or loss of a province. Macaulay.

2. The thing acquired or gained; an acquirement; a gain; as, learning
is an acquisition.

Syn.
 -- See Acquirement.

ACQUISITIVE
Ac*quis"i*tive, a.

1. Acquired. [Obs.]
He died not in his acquisitive, but in his native soil. Wotton.

2. Able or disposed to make acquisitions; acquiring; as, an
acquisitive person or disposition.

ACQUISITIVELY
Ac*quis"i*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the way of acquisition.

ACQUISITIVENESS
Ac*quis"i*tive*ness, n.

1. The quality of being acquisitive; propensity to acquire property;
desire of possession.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: The faculty to which the phrenologists attribute the desire of
acquiring and possessing. Combe.

ACQUISITOR
Ac*quis"i*tor, n.

Defn: One who acquires.

ACQUIST
Ac*quist", n. Etym: [Cf. Acquest.]

Defn: Acquisition; gain. Milton.

ACQUIT
Ac*quit", p. p.

Defn: Acquitted; set free; rid of. [Archaic] Shak.

ACQUIT
Ac*quit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acquitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Acquitting.]
Etym: [OE. aquiten, OF. aquiter, F. acquitter; (L. ad) + OF. quiter,
F. quitter, to quit. See Quit, and cf. Acquiet.]

1. To discharge, as a claim or debt; to clear off; to pay off; to
requite.
A responsibility that can never be absolutely acquitted. I. Taylor.

2. To pay for; to atone for. [Obs.] Shak.

3. To set free, release or discharge from an obligation, duty,
liability, burden, or from an accusation or charge; -- now followed
by of before the charge, formerly by from; as, the jury acquitted the
prisoner; we acquit a man of evil intentions.

4. Reflexively: (a) To clear one's self.k. (b) To bear or conduct
one's self; to perform one's part; as, the soldier acquitted himself
well in battle; the orator acquitted himself very poorly.

Syn.
 -- To absolve; clear; exonerate; exonerate; exculpate; release;
discharge. See Absolve.

ACQUITMENT
Ac*quit"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aquitement.]

Defn: Acquittal. [Obs.] Milton.

ACQUITTAL
Ac*quit"tal, n.

1. The act of acquitting; discharge from debt or obligation;
acquittance.

2. (Law)

Defn: A setting free, or deliverance from the charge of an offense,
by verdict of a jury or sentence of a court. Bouvier.

ACQUITTANCE
Ac*quit"tance, n. Etym: [OF. aquitance, fr. aquiter. See Acquit.]

1. The clearing off of debt or obligation; a release or discharge
from debt or other liability.

2. A writing which is evidence of a discharge; a receipt in full,
which bars a further demand.
You can produce acquittances For such a sum, from special officers.
Shak.

ACQUITTANCE
Ac*quit"tance, v. t.

Defn: To acquit. [Obs.] Shak.

ACQUITTER
Ac*quit"ter, n.

Defn: One who acquits or releases.

ACRANIA
A*cra"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: Partial or total absence of the skull.

2. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lowest group of Vertebrata, including the amphioxus, in
which no skull exists.

ACRANIAL
A*cra"ni*al, a.

Defn: Wanting a skull.

ACRASE; ACRAZE
A*crase", A*craze", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + crase; or cf. F. écraser
to crush. See Crase, Craze.]

1. To craze. [Obs.] Grafton.

2. To impair; to destroy. [Obs.] Hacket.

ACRASIA; ACRASY
A*cra"si*a, Ac"ra*sy n. Etym: [Gr. akrasia.]

Defn: Excess; intemperance. [Obs. except in Med.] Farindon.

ACRASPEDA
A*cras"pe*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of acalephs, including most of the larger jellyfishes;
the Discophora.

ACRE
A"cre, n. Etym: [OE. aker, AS. æcer; akin to OS. accar, OHG. achar,
Ger. acker, Icel. akr, Sw. åker, Dan. ager, Goth. akrs, L. ager, Gr.
ajra. *2, 206.]

1. Any field of arable or pasture land. [Obs.]

2. A piece of land, containing 160 square rods, or 4,840 square
yards, or 43,560 square feet. This is the English statute acre. That
of the United States is the same. The Scotch acre was about 1.26 of
the English, and the Irish 1.62 of the English.

Note: The acre was limited to its present definite quantity by
statutes of Edward I., Edward III., and Henry VIII. Broad acres, many
acres, much landed estate. [Rhetorical] -- God's acre, God's field;
the churchyard.
I like that ancient Saxon phrase, which calls The burial ground,
God's acre. Longfellow.

ACREABLE
A"cre*a*ble, a.

Defn: Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce.

ACREAGE
A"cre*age, n.

Defn: Acres collectively; as, the acreage of a farm or a country.

ACRED
A"cred, a.

Defn: Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition;
as, large-acred men.

ACRID
Ac"rid, a. Etym: [L. acer sharp; prob. assimilated in form to acid.
See Eager.]

1. Sharp and harsh, or bitter and not, to the taste; pungent; as,
acrid salts.

2. Causing heat and irritation; corrosive; as, acrid secretions.

3. Caustic; bitter; bitterly irritating; as, acrid temper, mind,
writing. Acrid poison, a poison which irritates, corrodes, or burns
the parts to which it is applied.

ACRIDITY; ACRIDNESS
A*crid"i*ty, Ac"rid*ness n.

Defn: The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness;
acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech.

ACRIDLY
Ac"rid*ly, adv.

Defn: In an acid manner.

ACRIMONIOUS
Ac"ri*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. acrimonious, F. acrimonieux.]

1. Acrid; corrosive; as, acrimonious gall. [Archaic] Harvey.

2. Caustic; bitter-tempered' sarcastic; as, acrimonious dispute,
language, temper.

ACRIMONIOUSLY
Ac`ri*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an acrimonious manner.

ACRIMONIOUSNESS
Ac`ri*mo"ni*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being acrimonious; asperity; acrimony.

ACRIMONY
Ac"ri*mo*ny, n.; pl. Acrimonies. Etym: [L. acrimonia, fr. acer,
sharp: cf. F. acrimonie.]

1. A quality of bodies which corrodes or destroys others; also, a
harsh or biting sharpness; as, the acrimony of the juices of certain
plants. [Archaic] Bacon.

2. Sharpness or severity, as of language or temper; irritating
bitterness of disposition or manners.
John the Baptist set himself with much acrimony and indignation to
baffle this senseless arrogant conceit of theirs. South.

Syn.
 -- Acrimony, Asperity, Harshness, Tartness. These words express
different degrees of angry feeling or language. Asperity and
harshness arise from angry feelings, connected with a disregard for
the feelings of others. Harshness usually denotes needless severity
or an undue measure of severity. Acrimony is a biting sharpness
produced by an imbittered spirit. Tartness denotes slight asperity
and implies some degree of intellectual readiness. Tartness of reply;
harshness of accusation; acrimony of invective.
In his official letters he expressed, with great acrimony, his
contempt for the king's character. Macaulay.
It is no very cynical asperity not to confess obligations where no
benefit has been received. Johnson.
A just reverence of mankind prevents the growth of harshness and
brutality. Shaftesbury.

ACRISIA; ACRISY
A*cris"i*a, Ac"ri*sy, n. Etym: [LL. acrisia, Gr.

1. Inability to judge.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Undecided character of a disease. [Obs.]

ACRITA
Ac"ri*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system has
been observed.

ACRITAN
Ac"ri*tan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Acrita.
 -- n. An individual of the Acrita.

ACRITE
Ac"rite, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Acritan. Owen.

ACRITICAL
A*crit"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Having no crisis; giving no indications of a crisis; as,
acritical symptoms, an acritical abscess.

ACRITOCHROMACY
Ac`ri*to*chro"ma*cy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Color blindness; achromatopsy.

ACRITUDE
Ac"ri*tude, n. Etym: [L. acritudo, from acer sharp.]

Defn: Acridity; pungency joined with heat. [Obs.]

ACRITY
Ac"ri*ty, n. Etym: [L. acritas, fr. acer sharp: cf. F. âcreté.]

Defn: Sharpness; keenness. [Obs.]

ACROAMATIC; ACROAMATICAL
Ac`ro*a*mat"ic, Ac`ro*a*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Communicated orally; oral; -- applied to the esoteric teachings
of Aristotle, those intended for his genuine disciples, in
distinction from his exoteric doctrines, which were adapted to
outsiders or the public generally. Hence: Abstruse; profound.

ACROATIC
Ac`ro*at"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Same as Acroamatic.

ACROBAT
Ac"ro*bat, n. Etym: [F. acrobate, fr. Gr.

Defn: One who practices rope dancing, high vaulting, or other daring
gymnastic feats.

ACROBATIC
Ac`ro*bat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. acrobatique.]

Defn: Pertaining to an acrobat.
 -- Ac`ro*bat"ic*al*ly, adv.

ACROBATISM
Ac"ro*bat*ism, n.

Defn: Feats of the acrobat; daring gymnastic feats; high vaulting.

ACROCARPOUS
Ac`ro*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)
(a) Having a terminal fructification; having the fruit at the end of
the stalk.
(b) Having the fruit stalks at the end of a leafy stem, as in certain
mosses.

ACROCEPHALIC
Ac`ro*ce*phal"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Cephalic.]

Defn: Characterized by a high skull.

ACROCEPHALY
Ac`ro*ceph"a*ly, n.

Defn: Loftiness of skull.

ACROCERAUNIAN
Ac`ro*ce*rau"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. acroceraunius, fr. Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the high mountain range of "thunder-
smitten" peaks (now Kimara), between Epirus and Macedonia. Shelley.

ACRODACTYLUM
Ac`ro*dac"tyl*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The upper surface of the toes, individually.

ACRODONT
Ac"ro*dont, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of lizards having the teeth immovably united to
the top of the alveolar ridge.
 -- a. Of or pertaining to the acrodonts.

ACROGEN
Ac"ro*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the highest class of cryptograms, including the
ferns, etc. See Cryptogamia. The Age of Acrogens (Geol.), the age of
coal plants, or the carboniferous era.

ACROGENOUS
Ac*rog"e*nous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Increasing by growth from the extremity; as, an acrogenous
plant.

ACROLEIN
A*cro"le*in, n. Etym: [L. acer sharp + olere to smell.] (Chem.)

Defn: A limpid, colorless, highly volatile liquid, obtained by the
dehydration of glycerin, or the destructive distillation of neutral
fats containing glycerin. Its vapors are intensely irritating. Watts.

ACROLITH
Ac"ro*lith, n. Etym: [L. acrolthus, Gr. with the ends made of stone;
(Arch. & Sculp.)

Defn: A statue whose extremities are of stone, the trunk being
generally of wood. Elmes.

ACROLITHAN; ACROLITHIC
A*crol"i*than, Ac`ro*lith"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an acrolith.

ACROMEGALY
Ac`ro*meg"a*ly, n. Etym: [NL. acromegalia, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Chronic enlargement of the extremities and face.

ACROMIAL
A*cro"mi*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. acromial.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the acromion. Dunglison.

ACROMION
A*cro"mi*on, n. Etym: [Gr. acromion.] (Anat.)

Defn: The outer extremity of the shoulder blade.

ACROMONOGRAMMATIC
Ac`ro*mon`o*gram*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having each verse begin with the same letter as that with which
the preceding verse ends.

ACRONYC; ACRONYCHAL
A*cron"yc, A*cron"ych*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: Rising at sunset and setting at sunrise, as a star; -- opposed
to cosmical.

Note: The word is sometimes incorrectly written acronical,
achronychal, acronichal, and acronical.

ACRONYCALLY
A*cron"yc*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an acronycal manner as rising at the setting of the sun, and
vise versâ.

ACRONYCTOUS
Ac"ro*nyc"tous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: Acronycal.

ACROOK
A*crook", adv.

Defn: Crookedly. [R.] Udall.

ACROPETAL
A*crop"e*tal, a. Etym: [Gr. petere to seek.] (Bot.)

Defn: Developing from below towards the apex, or from the
circumference towards the center; centripetal; -- said of certain
inflorescence.

ACROPHONY; ACHROPHONY
A*croph"o*ny, A*chroph"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent
phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.

ACROPHONY
A*croph"o*ny, n. [Gr. 'a`kros extreme +  sound.]

Defn: The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent
phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.

ACROPODIUM
Ac`ro*po"di*um, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The entire upper surface of the foot.

ACROPOLIS
A*crop"o*lis, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The upper part, or the citadel, of a Grecian city; especially,
the citadel of Athens.

ACROPOLITAN
Ac"ro*pol"i*tan, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an acropolis.

ACROSPIRE
Ac"ro*spire, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The sprout at the end of a seed when it begins to germinate;
the plumule in germination; -- so called from its spiral form.

ACROSPIRE
Ac"ro*spire, v. i.

Defn: To put forth the first sprout.

ACROSPORE
Ac"ro*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A spore borne at the extremity of the cells of fructification
in fungi.

ACROSPOROUS
Ac"ro*spor"ous, a.

Defn: Having acrospores.

ACROSS
A*cross" (#; 115), prep. Etym: [Pref. a- + cross: cf. F. en croix.
See Cross, n.]

Defn: From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a direction
opposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river.
Dryden. To come across, to come upon or meet incidentally. Freeman.
 -- To go across the country, to go by a direct course across a
region without following the roads.

ACROSS
A*cross", adv.

1. From side to side; crosswise; as, with arms folded across. Shak.

2. Obliquely; athwart; amiss; awry. [Obs.]
The squint-eyed Pharisees look across at all the actions of Christ.
Bp. Hall.

ACROSTIC
A*cros"tic, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A composition, usually in verse, in which the first or the last
letters of the lines, or certain other letters, taken in order, form
a name, word, phrase, or motto.

2. A Hebrew poem in which the lines or stanzas begin with the letters
of the alphabet in regular order (as Psalm cxix.). See Abecedarian.
Double acrostic, a species of enigma, in which words are to be
guessed whose initial and final letters form other words.

ACROSTIC; ACROSTICAL
A*cros"tic, A*cros"ti*cal, n.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, acrostics.

ACROSTICALLY
A*cros"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: After the manner of an acrostic.

ACROTARSIUM
Ac`ro*tar"si*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The instep or front of the tarsus.

ACROTELEUTIC
Ac`ro*te*leu"tic, n. Etym: [Gr. (Eccles.)

Defn: The end of a verse or psalm, or something added thereto, to be
sung by the people, by way of a response.

ACROTER
Ac"ro*ter, n. Etym: [F. acrotère. See Acroterium.] (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Acroterium.

ACROTERIAL
Ac`ro*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an acroterium; as, ornaments. P. Cyc.

ACROTERIUM
Ac`ro*te`ri*um, n.; pl. Acrotplwia. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Arch.)
(a) One of the small pedestals, for statues or other ornaments,
placed on the apex and at the basal angles of a pediment. Acroteria
are also sometimes placed upon the gables in Gothic architecture. J.
H. Parker.
(b) One of the pedestals, for vases or statues, forming a part roof
balustrade.

ACROTIC
A*crot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to or affecting the surface.

ACROTISM
Ac"ro*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Lack or defect of pulsation.

ACROTOMOUS
A*crot"o*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Having a cleavage parallel with the base.

ACRYLIC
A*cryl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or containing acryl, the hypothetical radical of which
acrolein is the hydride; as, acrylic acid.

ACT
Act, n. Etym: [L. actus, fr. agere to drive, do: cf. F. acte. See
Agent.]

1. That which is done or doing; the exercise of power, or the effect,
of which power exerted is the cause; a performance; a deed.
That best portion of a good man's life, His little, nameless,
unremembered acts Of kindness and of love. Wordsworth.
Hence, in specific uses:
(a) The result of public deliberation; the decision or determination
of a legislative body, council, court of justice, etc.; a decree,
edit, law, judgment, resolve, award; as, an act of Parliament, or of
Congress.
(b) A formal solemn writing, expressing that something has been done.
Abbott.
(c) A performance of part of a play; one of the principal divisions
of a play or dramatic work in which a certain definite part of the
action is completed.
(d) A thesis maintained in public, in some English universities, by a
candidate for a degree, or to show the proficiency of a student.

2. A state of reality or real existence as opposed to a possibility
or possible existence. [Obs.]
The seeds of plants are not at first in act, but in possibility, what
they afterward grow to be. Hooker.

3. Process of doing; action. In act, in the very doing; on the point
of (doing). "In act to shoot." Dryden.
This woman was taken . . . in the very act. John viii. 4.
Act of attainder. (Law) See Attainder.
 -- Act of bankruptcy (Law), an act of a debtor which renders him
liable to be adjudged a bankrupt.
 -- Act of faith. (Ch. Hist.) See Auto-da-Fé.
 -- Act of God (Law), an inevitable accident; such extraordinary
interruption of the usual course of events as is not to be looked for
in advance, and against which ordinary prudence could not guard.
 -- Act of grace, an expression often used to designate an act
declaring pardon or amnesty to numerous offenders, as at the
beginning of a new reign.
 -- Act of indemnity, a statute passed for the protection of those
who have committed some illegal act subjecting them to penalties.
Abbott.
 -- Act in pais, a thing done out of court (anciently, in the
country), and not a matter of record.

Syn.
 -- See Action.

ACT
Act, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Acted; p. pr. & vb. n. Acting.] Etym: [L.
actus, p. p. of agere to drive, lead, do; but influenced by E. act,
n.]

1. To move to action; to actuate; to animate. [Obs.]
Self-love, the spring of motion, acts the soul. Pope.

2. To perform; to execute; to do. [Archaic]
That we act our temporal affairs with a desire no greater than our
necessity. Jer. Taylor.
Industry doth beget by producing good habits, and facility of acting
things expedient for us to do. Barrow.
Uplifted hands that at convenient times Could act extortion and the
worst of crimes. Cowper.

3. To perform, as an actor; to represent dramatically on the stage.

4. To assume the office or character of; to play; to personate; as,
to act the hero.

5. To feign or counterfeit; to simulate.
With acted fear the villain thus pursued. Dryden.
To act a part, to sustain the part of one of the characters in a
play; hence, to simulate; to dissemble.
 -- To act the part of, to take the character of; to fulfill the
duties of.

ACT
Act, v. i.

1. To exert power; to produce an effect; as, the stomach acts upon
food.

2. To perform actions; to fulfill functions; to put forth energy; to
move, as opposed to remaining at rest; to carry into effect a
determination of the will.
He hangs between, in doubt to act or rest. Pope.

3. To behave or conduct, as in morals, private duties, or public
offices; to bear or deport one's self; as, we know not why he has
acted so.

4. To perform on the stage; to represent a character.
To show the world how Garrick did not act. Cowper.
To act as or for, to do the work of; to serve as.
 -- To act on, to regulate one's conduct according to.
 -- To act up to, to equal in action; to fulfill in practice; as, he
has acted up to his engagement or his advantages.

ACTABLE
Act"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being acted. Tennyson.

ACTINAL
Ac"ti*nal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the part of a radiate animal which contains the
mouth. L. Agassiz.

ACTINARIA
Ac`ti*na"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large division of Anthozoa, including those which have simple
tentacles and do not form stony corals. Sometimes, in a wider sense,
applied to all the Anthozoa, expert the Alcyonaria, whether forming
corals or not.

ACTING
Act"ing, a.

1. Operating in any way.

2. Doing duty for another; officiating; as, an superintendent.

ACTINIA
Ac*tin"i*a, n.; pl. L. Actiniæ, E. Actinias. Etym: [Latinized fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)
(a) An animal of the class Anthozoa, and family Actinidæ. From a
resemblance to flowers in form and color, they are often called
animal flowers and sea anemones. [See Polyp.].
(b) A genus in the family Actinidæ.

ACTINIC
Ac*tin"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to actinism; as, actinic rays.

ACTINIFORM
Ac*tin"i*form, a. Etym: [Gr. -form.]

Defn: Having a radiated form, like a sea anemone.

ACTINISM
Ac"tin*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The property of radiant energy (found chiefly in solar or
electric light) by which chemical changes are produced, as in
photography.

ACTINIUM
Ac*tin"i*um, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A supposed metal, said by Phipson to be contained in commercial
zinc; -- so called because certain of its compounds are darkened by
exposure to light.

ACTINO-CHEMISTRY
Ac`ti*no-chem"is*try, n.

Defn: Chemistry in its relations to actinism. Draper.

ACTINOGRAM
Ac*tin"o*gram, n. [Gr. , , ray + -gram.]

Defn: A record made by the actinograph.

ACTINOGRAPH
Ac*tin"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring and recording the variations in the
actinic or chemical force of rays of light. Nichol.

ACTINOID
Ac"tin*oid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Having the form of rays; radiated, as an actinia.

ACTINOLITE
Ac*tin"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A bright green variety of amphibole occurring usually in
fibrous or columnar masses.

ACTINOLITIC
Ac`tin*o*lit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Of the nature of, or containing, actinolite.

ACTINOLOGY
Ac`ti*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of rays of light, especially of the
actinic or chemical rays.

ACTINOMERE
Ac*tin"o*mere, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the radial segments composing the body of one of the
Coelenterata.

ACTINOMETER
Ac`ti*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter]
(a) An instrument for measuring the direct heating power of the sun's
rays.
(b) An instrument for measuring the actinic effect of rays of light.

ACTINOMETRIC
Ac`ti*no*met"ric, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the measurement of the intensity of the solar
rays, either (a) heating, or (b) actinic.

ACTINOMETRY
Ac`ti*nom"e*try, n.

1. The measurement of the force of solar radiation. Maury.

2. The measurement of the chemical or actinic energy of light. Abney.

ACTINOMYCOSIS
Ac`ti*no*my*co"sis, n. [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: A chronic infectious disease of cattle and man due to the
presence of Actinomyces bovis. It causes local suppurating tumors,
esp. about the jaw. Called also lumpy jaw or big jaw. --
Ac`ti*no*my*cot"ic (#), a.

ACTINOPHONE
Ac*tin"o*phone, n. [Gr. , , ray +  voice.] (Physics)

Defn: An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of the
actinic, or ultraviolet, rays.

ACTINOPHONIC
Ac*tin`o*phon"ic, a. (Physics)

Defn: Pertaining to, or causing the production of, sound by means of
the actinic, or ultraviolet, rays; as, actinophonic phenomena.

ACTINOPHOROUS
Ac`ti*noph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having straight projecting spines.

ACTINOSOME
Ac*tin"o*some, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The entire body of a coelenterate.

ACTINOST
Ac"tin*ost, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: (Anat.) One of the bones at the base of a paired fin of a fish.

ACTINOSTOME
Ac*tin"o*stome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The mouth or anterior opening of a coelenterate animal.

ACTINOTROCHA
Ac`ti*not"ro*cha, n. pl. Etym: [NL.; Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar larval form of Phoronis, a genus of marine worms,
having a circle of ciliated tentacles.

ACTINOZOA
Ac"ti*no*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Coelenterata, comprising the Anthozoa Ctenophora.
The sea anemone, or actinia, is a familiar example.

ACTINOZOAL
Ac`ti*no*zo"al, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Actinozoa.

ACTINOZOON; ACTINOZOOEN
Ac"ti*no*zo"ön, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Actinozoa.

ACTINULA
Ac*tin"u*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of embryo of certain hydroids (Tubularia), having a
stellate form.

ACTION
Ac"tion, n. Etym: [OF. action, L. actio, fr. agere to do. See Act.]

1. A process or condition of acting or moving, as opposed to rest;
the doing of something; exertion of power or force, as when one body
acts on another; the effect of power exerted on one body by another;
agency; activity; operation; as, the action of heat; a man of action.
One wise in council, one in action brave. Pope.

2. An act; a thing done; a deed; an enterprise. (pl.): Habitual
deeds; hence, conduct; behavior; demeanor.
The Lord is a Good of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. 1
Sam. ii. 3.

3. The event or connected series of events, either real or imaginary,
forming the subject of a play, poem, or other composition; the
unfolding of the drama of events.

4. Movement; as, the horse has a spirited action.

5. (Mech.)

Defn: Effective motion; also, mechanism; as, the breech action of a
gun.

6. (Physiol.)

Defn: Any one of the active processes going on in an organism; the
performance of a function; as, the action of the heart, the muscles,
or the gastric juice.

7. (Orat.)

Defn: Gesticulation; the external deportment of the speaker, or the
suiting of his attitude, voice, gestures, and countenance, to the
subject, or to the feelings.

8. (Paint. & Sculp.)

Defn: The attitude or position of the several parts of the body as
expressive of the sentiment or passion depicted.

9. (Law)
(a) A suit or process, by which a demand is made of a right in a
court of justice; in a broad sense, a judicial proceeding for the
enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a
wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.
(b) A right of action; as, the law gives an action for every claim.

10. (Com.)

Defn: A share in the capital stock of a joint-stock company, or in
the public funds; hence, in the plural, equivalent to stocks. [A
Gallicism] [Obs.]
The Euripus of funds and actions. Burke.

11. An engagement between troops in war, whether on land or water; a
battle; a fight; as, a general action, a partial action.

12. (Music)

Defn: The mechanical contrivance by means of which the impulse of the
player's finger is transmitted to the strings of a pianoforte or to
the valve of an organ pipe. Grove. Chose in action. (Law) See Chose.
 -- Quantity of action (Physics), the product of the mass of a body
by the space it runs through, and its velocity.

Syn.
 -- Action, Act. In many cases action and act are synonymous; but
some distinction is observable. Action involves the mode or process
of acting, and is usually viewed as occupying some time in doing. Act
has more reference to the effect, or the operation as complete.
To poke the fire is an act, to reconcile friends who have quarreled
is a praiseworthy action. C. J. Smith.

ACTIONABLE
Ac"tion*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. actionabilis. See Action.]

Defn: That may be the subject of an action or suit at law; as, to
call a man a thief is actionable.

ACTIONABLY
Ac"tion*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an actionable manner.

ACTIONARY; ACTIONIST
Ac"tion*a*ry, Ac"tion*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. actionnaire.] (Com.)

Defn: A shareholder in joint-stock company. [Obs.]

ACTIONLESS
Ac"tion*less, a.

Defn: Void of action.

ACTIVATE
Ac"ti*vate, v. t.

Defn: To make active. [Obs.]

ACTIVE
Ac"tive, a. Etym: [F. actif, L. activus, fr. agere to act.]

1. Having the power or quality of acting; causing change;
communicating action or motion; acting; -- opposed to Ant: passive,
that receives; as, certain active principles; the powers of the mind.

2. Quick in physical movement; of an agile and vigorous body; nimble;
as, an active child or animal.
Active and nervous was his gait. Wordsworth.

3. In action; actually proceeding; working; in force; -- opposed to
quiescent, dormant, or extinct; as, active laws; active hostilities;
an active volcano.

4. Given to action; constantly engaged in action; energetic;
diligent; busy; -- opposed to dull, sluggish, indolent, or inert; as,
an active man of business; active mind; active zeal.

5. Requiring or implying action or exertion; -- opposed to Ant:
sedentary or to Ant: tranquil; as, active employment or service;
active scenes.

6. Given to action rather than contemplation; practical; operative; -
- opposed to Ant: speculative or Ant: theoretical; as, an active
rather than a speculative statesman.

7. Brisk; lively; as, an active demand for corn.

8. Implying or producing rapid action; as, an active disease; an
active remedy.

9. (Gram.)
(a) Applied to a form of the verb; -- opposed to Ant: passive. See
Active voice, under Voice.
(b) Applied to verbs which assert that the subject acts upon or
affects something else; transitive.
(c) Applied to all verbs that express action as distinct from mere
existence or state. Active capital, Active wealth, money, or property
that may readily be converted into money.

Syn.
 -- Agile; alert; brisk; vigorous; nimble; lively; quick; sprightly;
prompt; energetic.

ACTIVELY
Ac"tive*ly, adv.

1. In an active manner; nimbly; briskly; energetically; also, by
one's own action; voluntarily, not passively.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: In an active signification; as, a word used actively.

ACTIVENESS
Ac"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being active; nimbleness; quickness of motion;
activity.

ACTIVITY
Ac*tiv"i*ty, n.; pl. Activities. Etym: [Cf. F. activité, LL.
activitas.]

Defn: The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility;
vigorous action or operation; energy; active force; as, an increasing
variety of human activities. "The activity of toil." Palfrey.

Syn.
 -- Liveliness; briskness; quickness.

ACTLESS
Act"less, a.

Defn: Without action or spirit. [R.]

ACTON
Ac"ton, n. Etym: [OF. aketon, auqueton, F. hoqueton, a quilted
jacket, fr. Sp. alcoton, algodon, cotton. Cf. Cotton.]

Defn: A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacket
plated with mail. [Spelled also hacqueton.] [Obs.] Halliwell. Sir W.
Scott.

ACTOR
Ac"tor, n. Etym: [L. actor, fr. agere to act.]

1. One who acts, or takes part in any affair; a doer.

2. A theatrical performer; a stageplayer.
After a well graced actor leaves the stage. Shak.

3. (Law)
(a) An advocate or proctor in civil courts or causes. Jacobs.
(b) One who institutes a suit; plaintiff or complainant.

ACTRESS
Ac`tress, n. Etym: [Cf. F. actrice.]

1. A female actor or doer. [Obs.] Cockeram.

2. A female stageplayer; a woman who acts a part.

ACTUAL
Ac"tu*al (#; 135), a. Etym: [OE. actuel, F. actuel, L. actualis, fr.
agere to do, act.]

1. Involving or comprising action; active. [Obs.]
Her walking and other actual performances. Shak.
Let your holy and pious intention be actual; that is . . . by a
special prayer or action, . . . given to God. Jer. Taylor.

2. Existing in act or reality; really acted or acting; in fact; real;
-- opposed to potential, possible, virtual, speculative, coceivable,
theoretical, or nominal; as, the actual cost of goods; the actual
case under discussion.

3. In action at the time being; now exiting; present; as the actual
situation of the country. Actual cautery. See under Cautery.
 -- Actual sin (Theol.), that kind of sin which is done by ourselves
in contradistinction to "original sin."

Syn.
 -- Real; genuine; positive; certain. See Real.

ACTUAL
Ac"tu*al, n. (Finance)

Defn: Something actually received; real, as distinct from estimated,
receipts. [Cant]
The accounts of revenues supplied . . . were not real receipts: not,
in financial language, "actuals," but only Egyptian budget estimates.
Fortnightly Review.

ACTUALIST
Ac"tu*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who deals with or considers actually existing facts and
conditions, rather than fancies or theories; -- opposed to idealist.
J. Grote.

ACTUALITY
Ac`tu*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Actualities.

Defn: The state of being actual; reality; as, the actuality of God's
nature. South.

ACTUALIZATION
Ac`tu*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: A making actual or really existent. [R.] Emerson.

ACTUALIZE
Ac"tu*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make actual; to realize in action. [R.] Coleridge.

ACTUALLY
Ac"tu*al*ly, adv.

1. Actively. [Obs.] "Neither actually . . . nor passively." Fuller.

2. In act or in fact; really; in truth; positively.

ACTUALNESS
Ac"tu*al*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being actual; actuality.

ACTUARIAL
Ac`tu*a"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to actuaries; as, the actuarial value of an
annuity.

ACTUARY
Ac"tu*a*ry, n.; pl. Actuaries. Etym: [L. actuarius copyist, clerk,
fr. actus, p. p. of agere to do, act.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A registar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil law
jurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registar generally.

2. The computing official of an insurance company; one whose
profession it is to calculate for insurance companies the risks and
premiums for life, fire, and other insurances.

ACTUATE
Ac"tu*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Actuated; p. pr. & vb. n. Actuating.]
Etym: [LL. actuatus, p. p. of actuare, fr. L. actus act.]

1. To put into action or motion; to move or incite to action; to
influence actively; to move as motives do; -- more commonly used of
persons.
Wings, which others were contriving to actuate by the perpetual
motion. Johnson.
Men of the greatest abilities are most fired with ambition; and, on
the contrary, mean and narrow minds are the least actuated by it.
Addison.

2. To carry out in practice; to perform. [Obs.] "To actuate what you
command." Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To move; impel; incite; rouse; instigate; animate.

ACTUATE
Ac"tu*ate, a. Etym: [LL. actuatus, p. p. of actuare.]

Defn: Put in action; actuated. [Obs.] South.

ACTUATION
Ac`tu*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. actuatio.]

Defn: A bringing into action; movement. Bp. Pearson.

ACTUATOR
Ac"tu*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who actuates, or puts into action. [R.] Melville.

ACTUOSE
Ac"tu*ose`, a. Etym: [L. actuosus.]

Defn: Very active. [Obs.]

ACTUOSITY
Ac`tu*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: Abundant activity. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ACTURE
Ac"ture, n.

Defn: Action. [Obs.] Shak.

ACTURIENCE
Ac*tu"ri*ence, n. Etym: [A desid. of L. agere, actum, to act.]

Defn: Tendency or impulse to act. [R.]
Acturience, or desire of action, in one form or another, whether as
restlessness, ennui, dissatisfaction, or the imagination of something
desirable. J. Grote.

ACUATE
Ac"u*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. acus needle.]

Defn: To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken. [Obs.] "[To] acuate
the blood." Harvey.

ACUATE
Ac"u*ate, a.

Defn: Sharpened; sharp-pointed.

ACUATION
Ac`u*a"tion, n.

Defn: Act of sharpening. [R.]

ACUITION
Ac`u*i"tion, n. Etym: [L. acutus, as if acuitus, p. p. of acuere to
sharpen.]

Defn: The act of sharpening. [Obs.]

ACUITY
A*cu"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. acuitas: cf. F. acuité.]

Defn: Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc.

ACULEATE
A*cu"le*ate, a. Etym: [L. aculeatus, fr. aculeus, dim. of acus
needle.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having prickles, or sharp points; beset with prickles.

3. Severe or stinging; incisive. [R.] Bacon.

ACULEATED
A*cu"le*a`ted, a.

Defn: Having a sharp point; armed with prickles; prickly; aculeate.

ACULEIFORM
A*cu"le*i*form, a.

Defn: Like a prickle.

ACULEOLATE
A*cu"le*o*late, a. Etym: [L. aculeolus little needle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having small prickles or sharp points. Gray.

ACULEOUS
A*cu"le*ous, a.

Defn: Aculeate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ACULEUS
A*cu"le*us, n.; pl. Aculei. Etym: [L., dim. of acus needle.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A prickle growing on the bark, as in some brambles and roses.
Lindley.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A sting.

ACUMEN
A*cu"men, n. Etym: [L. acumen, fr. acuere to sharpen. Cf. Acute.]

Defn: Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind;
the faculty of nice discrimination. Selden.

Syn.
 -- Sharpness; sagacity; keenness; shrewdness; acuteness.

ACUMINATE
A*cu"mi*nate, a. Etym: [L. acuminatus, p. p. of acuminare to sharpen,
fr. acumen. See Acumen.]

Defn: Tapering to a point; pointed; as, acuminate leaves, teeth, etc.

ACUMINATE
A*cu"mi*nate, v. t.

Defn: To render sharp or keen. [R.] "To acuminate even despair."
Cowper.

ACUMINATE
A*cu"mi*nate, v. i.

Defn: To end in, or come to, a sharp point. "Acuminating in a cone of
prelacy." Milton.

ACUMINATION
A*cu`mi*na"tion, n.

Defn: A sharpening; termination in a sharp point; a tapering point.
Bp. Pearson.

ACUMINOSE
A*cu"mi*nose`, a.

Defn: Terminating in a flat, narrow end. Lindley.

ACUMINOUS
A*cu"mi*nous, a.

Defn: Characterized by acumen; keen. Highmore.

ACUPRESSURE
Ac`u*pres"sure, n. Etym: [L. acus needle + premere, pressum, to
press.] (Surg.)

Defn: A mode of arresting hemorrhage resulting from wounds or
surgical operations, by passing under the divided vessel a needle,
the ends of which are left exposed externally on the cutaneous
surface. Simpson.

ACUPUNCTURATION
Ac`u*punc`tu*ra"tion, n.

Defn: See Acupuncture.

ACUPUNCTURE
Ac`u*punc"ture, n. Etym: [L. acus needle + punctura a pricking, fr.
pungere to prick: cf. F. acuponcture.]

Defn: Pricking with a needle; a needle prick. Specifically (Med.):

Defn: The insertion of needles into the living tissues for remedial
purposes.

ACUPUNCTURE
Ac`u*punc"ture, v. t.

Defn: To treat with acupuncture.

ACUSTUMAUNCE
A*cus"tum*aunce, n.

Defn: See Accustomance. [Obs.]

ACUTANGULAR
A*cut"an`gu*lar, a.

Defn: Acute-angled.

ACUTE
A*cute", a. Etym: [L. acutus, p. p. of acuere to sharpen, fr. a root
ak to be sharp. Cf. Ague, Cute, Edge.]

1. Sharp at the end; ending in a sharp point; pointed; -- opposed to
blunt or obtuse; as, an acute angle; an acute leaf.

2. Having nice discernment; perceiving or using minute distinctions;
penetrating; clever; shrewd; -- opposed to Ant: dull or Ant: stupid;
as, an acute observer; acute remarks, or reasoning.

3. Having nice or quick sensibility; susceptible to slight
impressions; acting keenly on the senses; sharp; keen; intense; as, a
man of acute eyesight, hearing, or feeling; acute pain or pleasure.

4. High, or shrill, in respect to some other sound; -- opposed to
grave or low; as, an acute tone or accent.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Attended with symptoms of some degree of severity, and coming
speedily to a crisis; -- opposed to chronic; as, an acute disease.
Acute angle (Geom.), an angle less than a right angle.

Syn.
 -- Subtile; ingenious; sharp; keen; penetrating; sagacious; sharp-
witted; shrewd; discerning; discriminating. See Subtile.

ACUTE
A*cute", v. t.

Defn: To give an acute sound to; as, he acutes his rising inflection
too much. [R.] Walker.

ACUTE-ANGLED
A*cute"-*an`gled, a.

Defn: Having acute angles; as, an acute-angled triangle, a triangle
with every one of its angles less than a right angle.

ACUTELY
A*cute"ly, adv.

Defn: In an acute manner; sharply; keenly; with nice discrimination.

ACUTENESS
A*cute"ness, n.

1. The quality of being acute or pointed; sharpness; as, the
acuteness of an angle.

2. The faculty of nice discernment or perception; acumen; keenness;
sharpness; sensitiveness; -- applied to the senses, or the
understanding. By acuteness of feeling, we perceive small objects or
slight impressions: by acuteness of intellect, we discern nice
distinctions.
Perhaps, also, he felt his professional acuteness interested in
bringing it to a successful close. Sir W. Scott.

3. Shrillness; high pitch; -- said of sounds.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Violence of a disease, which brings it speedily to a crisis.

Syn.
 -- Penetration; sagacity; keenness; ingenuity; shrewdness; subtlety;
sharp-wittedness.

ACUTIFOLIATE
A*cu`ti*fo"li*ate, a. Etym: [L. acutus sharp + folium leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having sharp-pointed leaves.

ACUTILOBATE
A*cu`ti*lo"bate, a. Etym: [L. acutus sharp + E. lobe.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having acute lobes, as some leaves.

ACUTORSION
Ac`u*tor"sion, n. [L. acus needle + torsion.] (Med.)

Defn: The twisting of an artery with a needle to arrest hemorrhage.

ACYCLIC
A*cyc"lic, a. [Pref. a- not + cyclic.]

Defn: Not cyclic; not disposed in cycles or whorls; as: (a) (Bot.)

Defn: Of a flower, having its parts inserted spirally on the
receptacle.
 (b) (Org. Chem.) Having an open-chain structure; aliphatic.

ACYL
Ac"yl, n.  [Acid + -yl.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: An acid radical, as acetyl, malonyl, or benzoyl.

AD-
Ad-. Etym: [A Latin preposition, signifying to. See At.]

Defn: As a prefix ad- assumes the forms ac-, af-, ag-, al-, an-, ap-,
ar-, as-, at-, assimilating the d with the first letter of the word
to which ad- is prefixed. It remains unchanged before vowels, and
before d, h, j, m, v. Examples: adduce, adhere, adjacent, admit,
advent, accord, affect, aggregate, allude, annex, appear, etc. It
becomes ac- before qu, as in acquiesce.

ADACT
Ad*act", v. t. Etym: [L. adactus, p. p. of adigere.]

Defn: To compel; to drive. [Obs.] Fotherby.

ADACTYL; ADACTYLOUS
A*dac"tyl, A*dac"tyl*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) Without fingers or without toes.
(b) Without claws on the feet (of crustaceous animals).

ADAGE
Ad"age, n. Etym: [F. adage, fr. L. adagium; ad + the root of L. aio I
say.]

Defn: An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a
proverb.
Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would," Like the poor cat i' the
adage. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Axiom; maxim; aphorism; proverb; saying; saw; apothegm. See
Axiom.

ADAGIAL
A*da"gi*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an adage; proverbial. "Adagial verse." Barrow.

ADAGIO
A*da"gio, a. & adv. Etym: [It. adagio; ad (L. ad) at + agio
convenience, leisure, ease. See Agio.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio,
adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow.

ADAGIO
A*da"gio, n.

Defn: A piece of music in adagio time; a slow movement; as, an adagio
of Haydn.

ADAM
Ad"am, n.

1. The name given in the Bible to the first man, the progenitor of
the human race.

2. (As a symbol)

Defn: "Original sin;" human frailty.
And whipped the offending Adam out of him. Shak.
Adam's ale, water. [Coll.] -- Adam's apple.

1. (Bot.) (a) A species of banana (Musa paradisiaca). It attains a
height of twenty feet or more. Paxton]. (b) A species of lime (Citris
limetta).

2. The projection formed by the thyroid cartilage in the neck. It is
particularly prominent in males, and is so called from a notion that
it was caused by the forbidden fruit (an apple) sticking in the
throat of our first parent.
 -- Adam's flannel (Bot.), the mullein (Verbascum thapsus).
 -- Adam's needle (Bot.), the popular name of a genus (Yucca) of
liliaceous plants.

ADAMANT
Ad"a*mant, n. Etym: [OE. adamaunt, adamant, diamond, magnet, OF.
adamant, L. adamas, adamantis, the hardest metal, fr. Gr. adamare to
love, be attached to, the word meant also magnet, as in OF. and LL.
See Diamond, Tame.]

1. A stone imagined by some to be of impenetrable hardness; a name
given to the diamond and other substance of extreme hardness; but in
modern minerology it has no technical signification. It is now a
rhetorical or poetical name for the embodiment of impenetrable
hardness.
Opposed the rocky orb Of tenfold adamant, his ample shield. Milton.

2. Lodestone; magnet. [Obs.] "A great adamant of acquaintance."
Bacon.
As true to thee as steel to adamant. Greene.

ADAMANTEAN
Ad`a*man*te"an, a. Etym: [L. adamanteus.]

Defn: Of adamant; hard as adamant. Milton.

ADAMANTINE
Ad`a*man"tine, a. Etym: [L. adamantinus, Gr.

1. Made of adamant, or having the qualities of adamant; incapable of
being broken, dissolved, or penetrated; as, adamantine bonds or
chains.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Like the diamond in hardness or luster.

ADAMBULACRAL
Ad`am*bu*la"cral, a. Etym: [L. ad + E. ambulacral.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Next to the ambulacra; as, the adambulacral ossicles of the
starfish.

ADAMIC; ADAMICAL
A*dam"ic, A*dam"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Adam, or resembling him. Adamic earth, a
name given to common red clay, from a notion that Adam means red
earth.

ADAMITE
Ad"am*ite, n. Etym: [From Adam.]

1. A descendant of Adam; a human being.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of visionaries, who, professing to imitate the
state of Adam, discarded the use of dress in their assemblies.

ADAM'S APPLE
Ad"am's ap"ple.

Defn: See under Adam.

ADANCE
A*dance", adv.

Defn: Dancing. Lowell.

ADANGLE
A*dan"gle, adv.

Defn: Dangling. Browning.

ADANSONIA
Ad`an*so"ni*a, n. Etym: [From Adanson, a French botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of great trees related to the Bombax. There are two
species, A. digitata, the baobab or monkey-bread of Africa and India,
and A. Gregorii, the sour gourd or cream-of-tartar tree of Australia.
Both have a trunk of moderate height, but of enormous diameter, and a
wide-spreading head. The fruit is oblong, and filled with pleasantly
acid pulp. The wood is very soft, and the bark is used by the natives
for making ropes and cloth. D. C. Eaton.

ADAPT
A*dapt", a.

Defn: Fitted; suited. [Obs.] Swift.

ADAPT
A*dapt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adapted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adapting.]
Etym: [L. adaptare; ad + aptare to fit; cf. F. adapter. See Apt,
Adept.]

Defn: To make suitable; to fit, or suit; to adjust; to alter so as to
fit for a new use; -- sometimes followed by to or for.
For nature, always in the right, To your decays adapts my sight.
Swift.
Appeals adapted to his [man's] whole nature. Angus.
Streets ill adapted for the residence of wealthy persons. Macaulay.

ADAPTABILITY; ADAPTABLENESS
A*dapt`a*bil"i*ty, A*dapt"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adaptable; suitableness. "General
adaptability for every purpose." Farrar.

ADAPTABLE
A*dapt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adapted.

ADAPTATION
Ad`ap*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adaptation, LL. adaptatio.]

1. The act or process of adapting, or fitting; or the state of being
adapted or fitted; fitness. "Adaptation of the means to the end."
Erskine.

2. The result of adapting; an adapted form.

ADAPTATIVE
A*dapt"a*tive, a.

Defn: Adaptive. Stubbs.

ADAPTEDNESS
A*dapt"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; special
fitness.

ADAPTER
A*dapt"er, n.

1. One who adapts.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A connecting tube; an adopter.

ADAPTION
A*dap"tion, n.

Defn: Adaptation. Cheyne.

ADAPTIVE
A*dapt"ive, a.

Defn: Suited, given, or tending, to adaptation; characterized by
adaptation; capable of adapting. Coleridge.
 -- A*dapt"ive*ly, adv.

ADAPTIVENESS
A*dapt"ive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adaptive; capacity to adapt.

ADAPTLY
A*dapt"ly, adv.

Defn: In a suitable manner. [R.] Prior.

ADAPTNESS
A*dapt"ness, n.

Defn: Adaptedness. [R.]

ADAPTORIAL
Ad`ap*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Adaptive. [R.]

ADAR
A"dar, n. Etym: [Heb. adär.]

Defn: The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and the
sixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March.

ADARCE
A*dar"ce, n. Etym: [L. adarce, adarca, Gr.

Defn: A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds in
Galatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansing
the skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy. Dana.

ADATIS
Ad"a*tis, n.

Defn: A fine cotton cloth of India.

ADAUNT
A*daunt", v. t. Etym: [OE. adaunten to overpower, OF. adonter; à (L.
ad) + donter, F. dompter. See Daunt.]

Defn: To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate. [Obs.] Skelton.

ADAW
A*daw", v. t. Etym: [Cf. OE. adawe of dawe, AS. of dagum from days,
i. e., from life, out of life.]

Defn: To subdue; to daunt. [Obs.]
The sight whereof did greatly him adaw. Spenser.

ADAW
A*daw", v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. adawen to wake; pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-
, Ger. er-) + dawen, dagon, to dawn. See Daw.]

Defn: To awaken; to arouse. [Obs.]
A man that waketh of his sleep He may not suddenly well taken keep
Upon a thing, ne seen it parfitly Till that he be adawed verily.
Chaucer.

ADAYS
A*days", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- (for on) + day; the final s was orig. a
genitive ending, afterwards forming adverbs.]

Defn: By day, or every day; in the daytime. [Obs.] Fielding.

AD CAPTANDUM
Ad cap*tan"dum. Etym: [L., for catching.]

Defn: A phrase used adjectively sometimes of meretricious attempts to
catch or win popular favor.

ADD
Add, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Added; p. pr. & vb. n. Adding.] Etym: [L.
addere; ad + dare to give, put. Cf. Date, Do.]

1. To give by way of increased possession (to any one); to bestow
(on).
The Lord shall add to me another son. Gen. xxx. 24.

2. To join or unite, as one thing to another, or as several
particulars, so as to increase the number, augment the quantity,
enlarge the magnitude, or so as to form into one aggregate. Hence: To
sum up; to put together mentally; as, to add numbers; to add up a
column.
Back to thy punishment, False fugitive, and to thy speed add wings.
Milton.
As easily as he can add together the ideas of two days or two years.
Locke.

3. To append, as a statement; to say further.
He added that he would willingly consent to the entire abolition of
the tax. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To Add, Join, Annex, Unite, Coalesce. We add by bringing things
together so as to form a whole. We join by putting one thing to
another in close or continuos connection. We annex by attaching some
adjunct to a larger body. We unite by bringing things together so
that their parts adhere or intermingle. Things coalesce by coming
together or mingling so as to form one organization. To add
quantities; to join houses; to annex territory; to unite kingdoms; to
make parties coalesce.

ADD
Add, v. i.

1. To make an addition. To add to, to augment; to increase; as, it
adds to our anxiety. "I will add to your yoke." 1 Kings xii. 14.

2. To perform the arithmetical operation of addition; as, he adds
rapidly.

ADDABLE
Add"a*ble, a. Etym: [Add, v. + -able.]

Defn: Addible.

ADDAX
Ad"dax, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, or Oryx,
nasomaculatus).

Note: It is now believed to be the Strepsiceros (twisted horn) of the
ancients. By some it is thought to be the pygarg of the Bible.

ADDEEM
Ad*deem", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + deem.]

Defn: To award; to adjudge. [Obs.] "Unto him they did addeem the
prise." Spenser.

ADDENDUM
Ad*den"dum, n.; pl. Addenda. Etym: [L., fr. addere to add.]

Defn: A thing to be added; an appendix or addition. Addendum circle
(Mech.), the circle which may be described around a circular spur
wheel or gear wheel, touching the crests or tips of the teeth.
Rankine.

ADDER
Add"er, n. Etym: [See Add.]

Defn: One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for adding
numbers.

ADDER
Ad"der, n. Etym: [OE. addere, naddere, eddre, AS. nædre, adder,
snake; akin to OS. nadra, OHG. natra, natara, Ger. natter, Goth.
nadrs, Icel. nathr, masc., nathra, fem.: cf. W. neidr, Gorn. naddyr,
Ir. nathair, L. natrix, water snake. An adder is for a nadder.]

1. A serpent. [Obs.] "The eddre seide to the woman." Wyclif. Gen.
iii. 4. )

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small venomous serpent of the genus Vipera. The common European
adder is the Vipera (or Pelias) berus. The puff adders of Africa are
species of Clotho.
(b) In America, the term is commonly applied to several harmless
snakes, as the milk adder, puffing adder, etc.
(c) Same as Sea Adder.

Note: In the sculptures the appellation is given to several venomous
serpents, -- sometimes to the horned viper (Cerastles).

ADDER FLY
Ad"der fly.

Defn: A dragon fly.

ADDER'S-TONGUE
Ad"der's-tongue`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A genus of ferns (Ophioglossum), whose seeds are produced on a
spike resembling a serpent's tongue.
(b) The yellow dogtooth violet. Gray.

ADDERWORT
Ad"der*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The common bistort or snakeweed (Polygonum bistorta).

ADDIBILITY
Add`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quantity of being addible; capability of addition. Locke.

ADDIBLE
Add"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being added. "Addible numbers." Locke.

ADDICE
Ad"dice, n.

Defn: See Adze. [Obs.] Moxon.

ADDICT
Ad*dict", p. p.

Defn: Addicted; devoted. [Obs.]

ADDICT
Ad*dict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Addicted; p. pr. & vb. n. Addicting.]
Etym: [L. addictus, p. p. of addicere to adjudge, devote; ad + dicere
to say. See Diction.]

1. To apply habitually; to devote; to habituate; -- with to. "They
addict themselves to the civil law." Evelyn.
He is addicted to his study. Beau. & Fl.
That part of mankind that addict their minds to speculations.
Adventurer.
His genius addicted him to the study of antiquity. Fuller.
A man gross . . . and addicted to low company. Macaulay.

2. To adapt; to make suitable; to fit. [Obs.]
The land about is exceedingly addicted to wood, but the coldness of
the place hinders the growth. Evelyn.

Syn.
 -- Addict, Devote, Consecrate, Dedicate. Addict was formerly used in
a good sense; as, addicted to letters; but is now mostly employed in
a bad sense or an indifferent one; as, addicted to vice; addicted to
sensual indulgence. "Addicted to staying at home." J. S. Mill. Devote
is always taken in a good sense, expressing habitual earnestness in
the pursuit of some favorite object; as, devoted to science.
Consecrate and dedicate express devotion of a higher kind, involving
religious sentiment; as, consecrated to the service of the church;
dedicated to God.

ADDICTEDNESS
Ad*dict"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being addicted; attachment.

ADDICTION
Ad*dic"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. L. addictio an adjudging.]

Defn: The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination. "His
addiction was to courses vain." Shak.

ADDISON'S DISEASE
Ad"di*son's dis*ease". Etym: [Named from Thomas Addison, M. D., of
London, who first described it.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition causing a peculiar brownish discoloration of
the skin, and thought, at one time, to be due to disease of the
suprarenal capsules (two flat triangular bodies covering the upper
part of the kidneys), but now known not to be dependent upon this
causes exclusively. It is usually fatal.

ADDITAMENT
Ad*dit"a*ment, n. Etym: [L. additamentum, fr. additus, p. p. of
addere to add.]

Defn: An addition, or a thing added. Fuller.
My persuasion that the latter verses of the chapter were an
additament of a later age. Coleridge.

ADDITION
Ad*di"tion, n. Etym: [F. addition, L. additio, fr. addere to add.]

1. The act of adding two or more things together; -- opposed to
subtraction or diminution. "This endless addition or addibility of
numbers." Locke.

2. Anything added; increase; augmentation; as, a piazza is an
addition to a building.

3. (Math.)

Defn: That part of arithmetic which treats of adding numbers.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: A dot at the right side of a note as an indication that its
sound is to be lengthened one half. [R.]

5. (Law)

Defn: A title annexed to a man's name, to identify him more
precisely; as, John Doe, Esq.; Richard Roe, Gent.; Robert Dale,
Mason; Thomas Way, of New York; a mark of distinction; a title.

6. (Her.)

Defn: Something added to a coat of arms, as a mark of honor; --
opposed to abatement. Vector addition (Geom.), that kind of addition
of two lines, or vectors, AB and BC, by which their sum is regarded
as the line, or vector, AC.

Syn.
 -- Increase; accession; augmentation; appendage; adjunct.

ADDITIONAL
Ad*di"tion*al, a.

Defn: Added; supplemental; in the way of an addition.

ADDITIONAL
Ad*di"tion*al, n.

Defn: Something added. [R.] Bacon.

ADDITIONALLY
Ad*di"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of addition.

ADDITIONARY
Ad*di"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Additional. [R.] Herbert.

ADDITITIOUS
Ad`di*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. addititius, fr. addere.]

Defn: Additive. [R.] Sir J. Herschel.

ADDITIVE
Ad"di*tive, a. Etym: [L. additivus.] (Math.)

Defn: Proper to be added; positive; -- opposed to subtractive.

ADDITORY
Ad"di*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending to add; making some addition. [R.] Arbuthnot.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, n. Etym: [OE. adel, AS. adela, mud.]

1. Liquid filth; mire. [Obs.]

2. Lees; dregs. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, a.

Defn: Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, as
eggs; putrid. Hence: Unfruitful or confused, as brains; muddled.
Dryden.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Addled; p. pr. & vb. n. Addling.]

Defn: To make addle; to grow addle; to muddle; as, he addled his
brain. "Their eggs were addled." Cowper.

ADDLE
Ad"dle, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. adlen, adilen, to gain, acquire; prob.
fr. Icel. ö\'eblask to acquire property, akin to othal property. Cf.
Allodial.]

1. To earn by labor. [Prov. Eng.] Forby.

2. To thrive or grow; to ripen. [Prov. Eng.]
Kill ivy, else tree will addle no more. Tusser.

ADDLE-BRAIN; ADDLE-HEAD; ADDLE-PATE
Ad"dle-brain`, Ad"dle-head`, Ad"dle-pate, n.

Defn: A foolish or dull-witted fellow. [Colloq.]

ADDLE-BRAINED; ADDLE-HEADED; ADDLE-PATED
Ad"dle-brained`, Ad"dle-head`ed, Ad"dle-pa`ted, a.

Defn: Dull-witted; stupid. "The addle-brained Oberstein." Motley.
Dull and addle-pated. Dryden.

ADDLE-PATEDNESS
Ad"dle-pa`ted*ness, n.

Defn: Stupidity.

ADDLINGS
Ad"dlings, n. pl. Etym: [See Addle, to earn.]

Defn: Earnings. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

ADDOOM
Ad*doom", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + doom.]

Defn: To adjudge. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADDORSED
Ad*dorsed", a. Etym: [L. ad + dorsum, back: cf. F. adossé.] (Her.)

Defn: Set or turned back to back.

ADDRESS
Ad*dress", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Addressed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Addressing.] Etym: [OE. adressen to raise erect, adorn, OF. adrecier,
to straighten, address, F. adresser, fr. à (L. ad) + OF. drecier, F.
dresser, to straighten, arrange. See Dress, v.]

1. To aim; to direct. [Obs.] Chaucer.
And this good knight his way with me addrest. Spenser.

2. To prepare or make ready. [Obs.]
His foe was soon addressed. Spenser.
Turnus addressed his men to single fight. Dryden.
The five foolish virgins addressed themselves at the noise of the
bridegroom's coming. Jer. Taylor.

3. Reflexively: To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or
energies (to some object); to betake.
These men addressed themselves to the task. Macaulay.

4. To clothe or array; to dress. [Archaic]
Tecla . . . addressed herself in man's apparel. Jewel.

5. To direct, as words (to any one or any thing); to make, as a
speech, petition, etc. (to any one, an audience).
The young hero had addressed his players to him for his assistance.
Dryden.

6. To direct speech to; to make a communication to, whether spoken or
written; to apply to by words, as by a speech, petition, etc., to
speak to; to accost.
Are not your orders to address the senate Addison.
The representatives of the nation addressed the king. Swift.

7. To direct in writing, as a letter; to superscribe, or to direct
and transmit; as, he addressed a letter.

8. To make suit to as a lover; to court; to woo.

9. (Com.)

Defn: To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or
factor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore. To
address one's self to. (a) To prepare one's self for; to apply one's
self to. (b) To direct one's speech or discourse to.

ADDRESS
Ad*dress", v. i.

1. To prepare one's self. [Obs.] "Let us address to tend on Hector's
heels." Shak.

2. To direct speech. [Obs.]
Young Turnus to the beauteous maid addrest. Dryden.

Note: The intransitive uses come from the dropping out of the
reflexive pronoun.

ADDRESS
Ad*dress, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adresse. See Address, v. t.]

1. Act of preparing one's self. [Obs.] Jer Taylor.

2. Act of addressing one's self to a person; verbal application.

3. A formal communication, either written or spoken; a discourse; a
speech; a formal application to any one; a petition; a formal
statement on some subject or special occasion; as, an address of
thanks, an address to the voters.

4. Direction or superscription of a letter, or the name, title, and
place of residence of the person addressed.

5. Manner of speaking to another; delivery; as, a man of pleasing or
insinuating address.

6. Attention in the way one's addresses to a lady. Addison.

7. Skill; skillful management; dexterity; adroitness.

Syn.
 -- Speech; discourse; harangue; oration; petition; lecture;
readiness; ingenuity; tact; adroitness.

ADDRESSEE
Ad`dress*ee", n.

Defn: One to whom anything is addressed.

ADDRESSION
Ad*dres"sion, n.

Defn: The act of addressing or directing one's course. [Rare & Obs.]
Chapman.

ADDUCE
Ad*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adduced; p. pr. & vb. n. Adducing.]
Etym: [L. adducere, adductum, to lead or bring to; ad + ducere to
lead. See Duke, and cf. Adduct.]

Defn: To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, or
consideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege.
Reasons . . . were adduced on both sides. Macaulay.
Enough could not be adduced to satisfy the purpose of illustration.
De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- To present; allege; advance; cite; quote; assign; urge; name;
mention.

ADDUCENT
Ad*du"cent, a. Etym: [L. addunces, p. pr. of adducere.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Bringing together or towards a given point; -- a word applied
to those muscles of the body which pull one part towards another.
Opposed to abducent.

ADDUCER
Ad*du"cer, n.

Defn: One who adduces.

ADDUCIBLE
Ad*du"ci*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adduced.
Proofs innumerable, and in every imaginable manner diversified, are
adducible. I. Taylor.

ADDUCT
Ad*duct", v. t. Etym: [L. adductus, p. p. of adducere. See Adduce.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: To draw towards a common center or a middle line. Huxley.

ADDUCTION
Ad*duc"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adduction. See Adduce.]

1. The act of adducing or bringing forward.
An adduction of facts gathered from various quarters. I. Taylor.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The action by which the parts of the body are drawn towards its
axis]; -- opposed to abduction. Dunglison.

ADDUCTIVE
Ad*duc"tive, a.

Defn: Adducing, or bringing towards or to something.

ADDUCTOR
Ad*duc"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. adducere.] (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which draws a limb or part of the body toward the
middle line of the body, or closes extended parts of the body; --
opposed to abductor; as, the adductor of the eye, which turns the eye
toward the nose.
In the bivalve shells, the muscles which close the values of the
shell are called adductor muscles. Verrill.

ADDULCE
Ad*dulce", v. t. Etym: [Like F. adoucir; fr. L. ad. + dulcis sweet.]

Defn: To sweeten; to soothe. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADEEM
A*deem", v. t. Etym: [L. adimere. See Ademption.] (Law)

Defn: To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by some
other gift.

ADELANTADILLO
A`de*lan`ta*dil"lo, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A Spanish red wine made of the first ripe grapes.

ADELANTADO
A`de*lan*ta"do, n. Etym: [Sp., prop. p. of adelantar to advance, to
promote.]

Defn: A governor of a province; a commander. Prescott.

ADELASTER
Ad*e*las"ter, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A provisional name for a plant which has not had its flowers
botanically examined, and therefore has not been referred to its
proper genus.

ADELING
Ad"el*ing, n.

Defn: Same as Atheling.

ADELOCODONIC
A*del`o*co*don"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Applied to sexual zooids of hydroids, that have a saclike form
and do not become free; -- opposed to phanerocodonic.

ADELOPOD
A*del"o*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal having feet that are not apparent.

ADELPHIA
A*del"phi*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A "brotherhood," or collection of stamens in a bundle; -- used
in composition, as in the class names, Monadelphia, Diadelphia, etc.

ADELPHOUS
A*del"phous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens;
as, adelphous stamens. Usually in composition; as, monadelphous.
Gray.

ADEMPT
A*dempt", p. p. Etym: [L. ademptus, p. p. of adimere to take away.]

Defn: Takes away. [Obs.]
Without any sinister suspicion of anything being added or adempt.
Latimn.

ADEMPTION
A*demp"tion, n. Etym: [L. ademptio, fr. adimere, ademptum, to take
away; ad + emere to buy, orig. to take.] (Law)

Defn: The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, or
the like. Bouvier.

ADEN-; ADENO-
Aden- or Adeno-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Combining forms of the Greek word for gland; -- used in words
relating to the structure, diseases, etc., of the glands.

ADENALGIA; ADENALGY
Ad`e*nal"gi*a, Ad"e*nal`gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: (Med.) Pain in a gland.

ADENIFORM
A*den"i*form, a. Etym: [Aden- + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like a gland; adenoid. Dunglison.

ADENITIS
Ad`e*ni"tis, n. Etym: [Aden- + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Glandular inflammation. Dunglison.

ADENOGRAPHIC
Ad`e*no*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adenography.

ADENOGRAPHY
Ad`e*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Adeno- + -graphy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which describes the glands.

ADENOID; ADENOIDAL
Ad"e*noid, Ad`e*noid"al a.

Defn: Glandlike; glandular.

ADENOLOGICAL
Ad`e*no*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adenology.

ADENOLOGY
Ad`e*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Adeno- + -logy.]

Defn: The part of physiology that treats of the glands.

ADENOMA
Ad`e*no"ma, n.; L. pl. -mata (#). [NL.; adeno- + -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A benign tumor of a glandlike structure; morbid enlargement of
a gland. -- Ad`e*nom"a*tous, a.

ADENOPATHY
Ad"e*nop"a*thy, n.  [Adeno- + Gr.  suffering,  to suffer.] (Med.)

Defn: Disease of a gland.

ADENOPHOROUS
Ad`e*noph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Adeno- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing glands.

ADENOPHYLLOUS
Ad`e*noph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Adeno- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having glands on the leaves.

ADENOSCLEROSIS
Ad"e*no*scle*ro"sis, n. [NL.; adeno- + sclerosis.] (Med.)

Defn: The hardening of a gland.

ADENOSE
Ad"e*nose`, a.

Defn: Like a gland; full of glands; glandulous; adenous.

ADENOTOMIC
Ad`e*no*tom"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adenotomy.

ADENOTOMY
Ad`e*not"o*my, n. Etym: [Adeno- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Dissection of, or incision into, a gland or glands.

ADENOUS
Ad"e*nous, a.

Defn: Same as Adenose.

ADEN ULCER
A"den ul"cer. [So named after Aden, a seaport in Southern Arabia,
where it occurs.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease endemic in various parts of tropical Asia, due to a
specific microörganism which produces chronic ulcers on the limbs. It
is often fatal. Called also Cochin China ulcer, Persian ulcer,
tropical ulcer, etc.

ADEPS
Ad"eps, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Animal fat; lard.

ADEPT
A*dept", n. Etym: [L. adeptus obtained (sc. artem), adipsci to arrive
ad + apisci to pursue. See Apt, and cf. Adapt.]

Defn: One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as,
adepts in philosophy.

ADEPT
A*dept", a.

Defn: Well skilled; completely versed; thoroughly proficient.
Beaus adept in everything profound. Cowper.

ADEPTION
A*dep"tion, n. Etym: [L. adeptio. See Adept, a.]

Defn: An obtaining; attainment. [Obs.]
In the wit and policy of the capitain consisteth the chief adeption
of the victory. Grafton.

ADEPTIST
A*dept"ist, n.

Defn: A skilled alchemist. [Obs.]

ADEPTNESS
A*dept"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adept; skill.

ADEQUACY
Ad"e*qua*cy, n. Etym: [See Adequate.]

Defn: The state or quality of being adequate, proportionate, or
sufficient; a sufficiency for a particular purpose; as, the adequacy
of supply to the expenditure.

ADEQUATE
Ad"e*quate, a. Etym: [L. adaequatus, p. p. of adaequare to make equal
to; ad + aequare to make equal, aequus equal. See Equal.]

Defn: Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent;
fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequate
definition.
Ireland had no adequate champion. De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- Proportionate; commensurate; sufficient; suitable; competent;
capable.

ADEQUATE
Ad"e*quate, v. t. Etym: [See Adequate, a.]

1. To equalize; to make adequate. [R.] Fotherby.

2. To equal. [Obs.]
It [is] an impossibility for any creature to adequate God in his
eternity. Shelford.

ADEQUATELY
Ad"e*quate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adequate manner.

ADEQUATENESS
Ad"e*quate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adequate; suitableness; sufficiency;
adequacy.

ADEQUATION
Ad`e*qua"tion, n. Etym: [L. adaequatio.]

Defn: The act of equalizing; act or result of making adequate; an
equivalent. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow.

ADESMY
A*des"my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usually
entire.

ADESSENARIAN
Ad*es`se*na"ri*an, n. Etym: [Formed fr. L. adesse to be present; ad +
esse to be.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who held the real presence of Christ's body in the
eucharist, but not by transubstantiation.

ADFECTED
Ad*fect"ed, a. Etym: [L. adfectus or affectus. See Affect, v.] (Alg.)

Defn: See Affected, 5.

ADFILIATED
Ad*fil"i*a`ted, a.

Defn: See Affiliated. [Obs.]

ADFILIATION
Ad*fil`i*a"tion, n.

Defn: See Affiliation. [Obs.]

ADFLUXION
Ad*flux"ion, n.

Defn: See Affluxion.

ADHAMANT
Ad*ha"mant, a. Etym: [From L. adhamare to catch; ad + hamus hook.]

Defn: Clinging, as by hooks.

ADHERE
Ad*here", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Adhered; p. pr. & vb. n. Adhering.]
Etym: [L. adhaerere, adhaesum; ad + haerere to stick: cf. F. adhérer.
See Aghast.]

1. To stick fast or cleave, as a glutinous substance does; to become
joined or united; as, wax to the finger; the lungs sometimes adhere
to the pleura.

2. To hold, be attached, or devoted; to remain fixed, either by
personal union or conformity of faith, principle, or opinion; as, men
adhere to a party, a cause, a leader, a church.

3. To be consistent or coherent; to be in accordance; to agree. "Nor
time nor place did then adhere." Every thing adheres together." Shak.

Syn.
 -- To attach; stick; cleave; cling; hold

ADHERENCE
Ad*her"ence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. adhérence, LL. adhaerentia.]

1. The quality or state of adhering.

2. The state of being fixed in attachment; fidelity; steady
attachment; adhesion; as, adherence to a party or to opinions.

Syn.
 -- Adherence, Adhesion. These words, which were once freely
interchanged, are now almost entirely separated. Adherence is no
longer used to denote physical union, but is applied, to mental
states or habits; as, a strict adherence to one's duty; close
adherence to the argument, etc. Adhesion is now confined chiefly to
the physical sense, except in the phrase "To give in one's adhesion
to a cause or a party."

ADHERENCY
Ad*her"en*cy, n.

1. The state or quality of being adherent; adherence. [R.]

2. That which adheres. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ADHERENT
Ad*her"ent, a. Etym: [L. adhaerens, -entis, p. pr.: cf. F. adhérent.]

1. Sticking; clinging; adhering. Pope.

2. Attached as an attribute or circumstance.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Congenitally united with an organ of another kind, as calyx
with ovary, or stamens with petals.

ADHERENT
Ad*her"ent, n.

1. One who adheres; one who adheres; one who follows a leader, party,
or profession; a follower, or partisan; a believer in a particular
faith or church.

2. That which adheres; an appendage. [R.] Milton.

Syn.
 -- Follower; partisan; upholder; disciple; supporter; dependent;
ally; backer.

ADHERENTLY
Ad*her"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adherent manner.

ADHERER
Ad*her"er, n.

Defn: One who adheres; an adherent.

ADHESION
Ad*he"sion, n. Etym: [L. adhaesio, fr. adhaerere: cf. F. adhésion.]

1. The action of sticking; the state of being attached; intimate
union; as the adhesion of glue, or of parts united by growth, cement,
or the like.

2. Adherence; steady or firm attachment; fidelity; as, to error, to a
policy.
His adhesion to the Tories was bounded by his approbation of their
foreign policy. De Quincey.

3. Agreement to adhere; concurrence; assent.
To that treaty Spain and England gave in their adhesion. Macaulay.

4. (Physics)

Defn: The molecular attraction exerted between bodies in contact. See
Cohesion.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Union of surface, normally separate, by the formation of new
tissue resulting from an inflammatory process.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: The union of parts which are separate in other plants, or in
younger states of the same plant.

Syn.
 -- Adherence; union. See Adherence.

ADHESIVE
Ad*he"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. adhésif.]

1. Sticky; tenacious, as glutinous substances.

2. Apt or tending to adhere; clinging. Thomson. Adhesive attraction.
(Physics) See Attraction.
 -- Adhesive inflammation (Surg.), that kind of inflammation which
terminates in the reunion of divided parts without suppuration.
 -- Adhesive plaster, a sticking; a plaster containing resin, wax,
litharge, and olive oil.

ADHESIVELY
Ad*he"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adhesive manner.

ADHESIVENESS
Ad*he"sive*ness, n.

1. The quality of sticking or adhering; stickiness; tenacity of
union.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: Propensity to form and maintain attachments to persons, and to
promote social intercourse.

ADHIBIT
Ad*hib"it, v. t. Etym: [L. adhibitus, p. p. of adhibere to hold to;
ad + habere to have.]

1. To admit, as a person or thing; to take in. Muirhead.

2. To use or apply; to administer. Camden.

3. To attach; to affix. Alison.

ADHIBITION
Ad`hi*bi"tion, n. Etym: [L. adhibitio.]

Defn: The act of adhibiting; application; use. Whitaker.

AD HOMINEM
Ad hom"i*nem. Etym: [L., to the man.]

Defn: ` phrase applied to an appeal or argument addressed to the
principles, interests, or passions of a man.

ADHORT
Ad*hort", v. t. Etym: [L. adhortari. See Adhortation.]

Defn: To exhort; to advise. [Obs.] Feltham.

ADHORTATION
Ad`hor*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. adhortatio, fr. adhortari to advise; ad
+ hortari to exhort.]

Defn: Advice; exhortation. [Obs.] Peacham.

ADHORTATORY
Ad*hor"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing counsel or warning; hortatory; advisory. [Obs.]
Potter.

ADIABATIC
Ad`i*a*bat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Not giving out or receiving heat.
 -- Ad`i*a*bat`ic*al*ly, adv. Adiabatic line or curve, a curve
exhibiting the variations of pressure and volume of a fluid when it
expands without either receiving or giving out heat. Rankine.

ADIACTINIC
Ad`i*ac*tin"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + diactinic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Not transmitting the actinic rays.

ADIANTUM
Ad`i*an"tum, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ferns, the leaves of which shed water; maidenhair.
Also, the black maidenhair, a species of spleenwort.

ADIAPHORISM
Ad`i*aph"o*rism, n.

Defn: Religious indifference.

ADIAPHORIST
Ad`i*aph"o*rist, n. Etym: [See Adiaphorous.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held some
opinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, which
Luther condemned as sinful or heretical. Murdock.

ADIAPHORISTIC
Ad`i*aph`o*ris"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to matters indifferent in faith and practice.
Shipley.

ADIAPHORITE
Ad`i*aph"o*rite, n.

Defn: Same as Adiaphorist.

ADIAPHOROUS
Ad`i*aph"o*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Indifferent or neutral. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Incapable of doing either harm or good, as some medicines.
Dunglison.

ADIAPHORY
Ad`i*aph"o*ry, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Indifference. [Obs.]

ADIATHERMIC
Ad`i*a*ther"mic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Not pervious to heat.

ADIEU
A*dieu", interj. & adv. Etym: [OE. also adew, adewe, adue, F. dieu,
fr. L. ad to + deus God.]

Defn: Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting.

ADIEU
A*dieu", n.; pl. Adieus.

Defn: A farewell; commendation to the care of God at parting. Shak.

ADIGHT
A*dight", v. t. [p. p. Adight.] Etym: [Pref. a- (intensive) + OE.
dihten. See Dight.]

Defn: To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress. [Obs.]

AD INFINITUM
Ad in`fi*ni"tum. Etym: [L., to infinity.]

Defn: Without limit; endlessly.

AD INTERIM
Ad in"ter*imEtym: [L.]

Defn: Meanwhile; temporary.

ADIOS
A`dios", interj. [Sp., fr. L. ad to + deus god. Cf. Adieu.]

Defn: Adieu; farewell; good-by; -- chiefly used among Spanish-
speaking people.

 This word is often pronounced å*de"os, but the Spanish accent,
though weak, is on the final syllable.

ADIPESCENT
Ad`i*pes"cent, a. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat + -escent.]

Defn: Becoming fatty.

ADIPIC
A*dip"ic, a. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; --
applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitric
acid.

ADIPOCERATE
Ad`i*poc"er*ate, v. t.

Defn: To convert adipocere.

ADIPOCERATION
Ad`i*poc`er*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of changing into adipocere.

ADIPOCERE
Ad"i*po*cere`, n. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat + cera wax: cf. F.
adipocere.]

Defn: A soft, unctuous, or waxy substance, of a light brown color,
into which the fat and muscle tissue of dead bodies sometimes are
converted, by long immersion in water or by burial in moist places.
It is a result of fatty degeneration.

ADIPOCERIFORM
Ad`i*po*cer"i*form, a. Etym: [Adipocere + -form.]

Defn: Having the form or appearance of adipocere; as, an
adipoceriform tumor.

ADIPOCEROUS
Ad`i*poc"er*ous, a.

Defn: Like adipocere.

ADIPOGENOUS
Ad`i*pog"e*nous, a. [See Adipose; -genous.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing fat.

ADIPOLYSIS
Ad`i*pol"y*sis, n. [NL.; L. adeps, adipis, fat + Gr.  a loosing.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: The digestion of fats.

ADIPOLYTIC
Ad`i*po*lyt"ic, a. [L. adeps, adipis, fat + Gr.  to loose.] (Chem.)

Defn: Hydrolyzing fats; converting neutral fats into glycerin and
free fatty acids, esp. by the action of an enzyme; as, adipolytic
action.

ADIPOMA
Ad`i*po"ma, n.; L. pl. -mata (#). [NL. See Adipose; -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A mass of fat found internally; also, a fatty tumor. --
Ad`i*pom"a*tous, a.

ADIPOSE
Ad"i*pose`, a. Etym: [L. adeps, adipis, fat, grease.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to animal fat; fatty. Adipose fin (Zoöl.), a
soft boneless fin.
 -- Adipose tissue (Anat.), that form of animal tissue which forms or
contains fat.

ADIPOSENESS; ADIPOSITY
Ad"i*pose`ness, Ad`i*pos"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being fat; fatness.

ADIPOUS
Ad"i*pous, a.

Defn: Fatty; adipose. [R.]

ADIPSOUS
A*dip"sous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Quenching thirst, as certain fruits.

ADIPSY
Ad"ip*sy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Absence of thirst.

ADIT
Ad"it, n. Etym: [L. aditus, fr. adire, , to go to; ad + ire to go.]

1. An entrance or passage. Specifically: The nearly horizontal
opening by which a mine is entered, or by which water and ores are
carried away; -- called also drift and tunnel.

2. Admission; approach; access. [R.]
Yourself and yours shall have Free adit. Tennyson.

ADJACENCE; ADJACENCY
Ad"ja"cence, Ad*ja"cen*cy,Etym: [Cf. LL. adjacentia.]

1. The state of being adjacent or contiguous; contiguity; as, the
adjacency of lands or buildings.

2. That which is adjacent.[R.] Sir T. Browne.

ADJACENT
Ad*ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. adjacens, -centis, p. pr. of adjacere to lie
near; ad + jac to lie: cf. F. adjacent.]

Defn: Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on;
as, a field adjacent to the highway. "The adjacent forest." B.
Jonson. Adjacent or contiguous angle. (Geom.) See Angle.

Syn.
 -- Adjoining; contiguous; near.
 -- Adjacent, Adjoining, Contiguous. Things are adjacent when they
lie close each other, not necessary in actual contact; as, adjacent
fields, adjacent villages, etc.
I find that all Europe with her adjacent isles is peopled with
Christians. Howell.
Things are adjoining when they meet at some line or point of
junction; as, adjoining farms, an adjoining highway. What is spoken
of as contiguous should touch with some extent of one side or the
whole of it; as, a row of contiguous buildings; a wood contiguous to
a plain.

ADJACENT
Ad*ja"cent, n.

Defn: That which is adjacent. [R.] Locke.

ADJACENTLY
Ad*ja"cent*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to be adjacent.

ADJECT
Ad*ject", v. t. Etym: [L. adjectus, p. p. of adjicere to throw to, to
add to; ad + ac to throw. See Jet a shooting forth.]

Defn: To add or annex; to join. Leland.

ADJECTION
Ad*jec"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjectio, fr. adjicere: cf. F. adjection.
See Adject.]

Defn: The act or mode of adding; also, the thing added. [R.] B.
Jonson.

ADJECTIONAL
Ad*jec"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to adjection; that is, or may be, annexed. [R.]
Earle.

ADJECTITIOUS
Ad`jec*ti"tious, Etym: [L. adjectitius.]

Defn: Added; additional. Parkhurst.

ADJECTIVAL
Ad`jec*ti"val, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the relating to the adjective; of the nature
of an adjective; adjective. W. Taylor (1797)

ADJECTIVALLY
Ad`jec*ti"val*ly, adv.

Defn: As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.

ADJECTIVE
Ad"jec*tive, a. Etym: [See Adjective, n.]

1. Added to a substantive as an attribute; of the nature of an
adjunct; as, an word sentence.

2. Not standing by itself; dependent. Adjective color, a color which
requires to be fixed by some mordant or base to give it permanency.

3. Relating to procedure. "The whole English law, substantive and
adjective." Macaulay.

ADJECTIVE
Ad"jec*tive, n. Etym: [L. adjectivum (sc. nomen), neut. of adjectivus
that is added, fr. adjicere: cf. F. adjectif. See Adject.]

1. (Gram.)

Defn: A word used with a noun, or substantive, to express a quality
of the thing named, or something attributed to it, or to limit or
define it, or to specify or describe a thing, as distinct from
something else. Thus, in phrase, "a wise ruler," wise is the
adjective, expressing a property of ruler.

2. A dependent; an accessory. Fuller.

ADJECTIVE
Ad"jec*tive, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjectived; p. pr. & vb. n.
Adjectiving.]

Defn: To make an adjective of; to form or change into an adjective.
[R.]
Language has as much occasion to adjective the distinct signification
of the verb, and to adjective also the mood, as it has to adjective
time. It has . . . adjectived all three. Tooke.

ADJECTIVELY
Ad"jec*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an adjective; as, a word used adjectively.

ADJOIN
Ad*join", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjoined; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjoining.]
Etym: [OE. ajoinen, OF. ajoindre, F. adjoindre, fr. L. adjungere; ad
+ jungere to join. See Join, and cf. Adjunct.]

Defn: To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contact
with; to attach; to append.
Corrections . . . should be, as remarks, adjoined by way of note.
Watts.

ADJOIN
Ad*join", v. i.

1. To lie or be next, or in contact; to be contiguous; as, the houses
adjoin.
When one man's land adjoins to another's. Blackstone.

Note: The construction with to, on, or with is obsolete or
obsolescent.

2. To join one's self. [Obs.]
She lightly unto him adjoined side to side. Spenser.

ADJOINANT
Ad*join"ant, a.

Defn: Contiguous. [Obs.] Carew.

ADJOINING
Ad*join"ing, a.

Defn: Joining to; contiguous; adjacent; as, an adjoining room. "The
adjoining fane." Dryden.
Upon the hills adjoining to the city. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Adjacent; contiguous; near; neighboring; abutting; bordering. See
Adjacent.

ADJOINT
Ad"joint, n.

Defn: An adjunct; a helper. [Obs.]

ADJOURN
Ad*journ, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjourned; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjourning.]
Etym: [OE. ajornen, OF. ajoiner, ajurner, F. ajourner; OF. a (L. ad)
+ jor, jur, jorn, F. jour, day, fr. L. diurnus belonging to the day,
fr. dies day. Cf. Journal, Journey.]

Defn: To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; to
postpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of the
meeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting;
to adjourn a debate.
It is a common practice to adjourn the reformation of their lives to
a further time. Barrow.
'Tis a needful fitness That we adjourn this court till further day.
Shak.

Syn.
 -- To delay; defer; postpone; put off; suspend.
 -- To Adjourn, Prorogue, Dissolve. These words are used in respect
to public bodies when they lay aside business and separate. Adjourn,
both in Great Britain and this country, is applied to all cases in
which such bodies separate for a brief period, with a view to meet
again. Prorogue is applied in Great Britain to that act of the
executive government, as the sovereign, which brings a session of
Parliament to a close. The word is not used in this country, but a
legislative body is said, in such a case, to adjourn sine die. To
dissolve is to annul the corporate existence of a body. In order to
exist again the body must be reconstituted.

ADJOURN
Ad*journ", v. i.

Defn: To suspend business for a time, as from one day to another, or
for a longer period, or indefinitely; usually, to suspend public
business, as of legislatures and courts, or other convened bodies;
as, congress adjourned at four o'clock; the court adjourned without
day.

ADJOURNAL
Ad*journ"al, n.

Defn: Adjournment; postponement. [R.] "An adjournal of the Diet." Sir
W. Scott.

ADJOURNMENT
Ad*journ"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. f. adjournement, OF. ajornement. See
Adjourn.]

1. The act of adjourning; the putting off till another day or time
specified, or without day.

2. The time or interval during which a public body adjourns its
sittings or postpones business.

ADJUDGE
Ad*judge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjudged; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjudging.]
Etym: [OE. ajugen, OF. ajugier, fr. L. adjudicare; ad + judicare to
judge. See Judge, and cf. Adjudicate.]

1. To award judicially in the case of a controverted question; as,
the prize was adjudged to the victor.

2. To determine in the exercise of judicial power; to decide or award
judicially; to adjudicate; as, the case was adjudged in the November
term.

3. To sentence; to condemn.
Without reprieve, adjudged to death For want of well pronouncing
Shibboleth. Milton.

4. To regard or hold; to judge; to deem.
He adjudged him unworthy of his friendship. Knolles.

Syn.
 -- To decree; award; determine; adjudicate; ordain; assign.

ADJUDGER
Ad*judg"er, n.

Defn: One who adjudges.

ADJUDGMENT
Ad*judg"ment, n.

Defn: The act of adjudging; judicial decision; adjudication. Sir W.
Temple.

ADJUDICATE
Ad*ju"di*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjudicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Adjudicating] Etym: [L. adjudicatus, p. p. of adjudicare. See
Adjudge.]

Defn: To adjudge; to try and determine, as a court; to settle by
judicial decree.

ADJUDICATE
Ad*ju"di*cate, v. i.

Defn: To come to a judicial decision; as, the court adjudicated upon
the case.

ADJUDICATION
Ad*ju`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjudicatio: cf. F. adjudication.]

1. The act of adjudicating; the act or process of trying and
determining judicially.

2. A deliberate determination by the judicial power; a judicial
decision or sentence. "An adjudication in favor of natural rights."
Burke.

3. (Bankruptcy practice)

Defn: The decision upon the question whether the debtor is a
bankrupt. Abbott.

4. (Scots Law)

Defn: A process by which land is attached security or in satisfaction
of a debt.

ADJUDICATIVE
Ad*ju"di*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Adjudicating.

ADJUDICATOR
Ad*ju"di*ca`tor, n.

Defn: One who adjudicates.

ADJUDICATURE
Ad*ju"di*ca*ture, n.

Defn: Adjudication.

ADJUGATE
Ad"ju*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. adjugatus, p. p. of adjugare; ad + jugum
a yoke.]

Defn: To yoke to. [Obs.]

ADJUMENT
Ad"ju*ment, n. Etym: [L. adjumentum, for adjuvamentum, fr. adjuvare
to help; ad + juvare to help.]

Defn: Help; support; also, a helper. [Obs.] Waterhouse.

ADJUNCT
Ad"junct`, a. Etym: [L. adjunctus, p. p. of adjungere. See Adjoin.]

Defn: Conjoined; attending; consequent.
Though that my death were adjunct to my act. Shak.
Adjunct notes (Mus.), short notes between those essential to the
harmony; auxiliary notes; passing notes.

ADJUNCT
Ad"junct`, n.

1. Something joined or added to another thing, but not essentially a
part of it.
Learning is but an adjunct to our self. Shak.

2. A person joined to another in some duty or service; a colleague;
an associate. Wotton.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A word or words added to quality or amplify the force of other
words; as, the History of the American Revolution, where the words in
italics are the adjunct or adjuncts of "History."

4. (Metaph.)

Defn: A quality or property of the body or the mind, whether natural
or acquired; as, color, in the body, judgment in the mind.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A key or scale closely related to another as principal; a
relative or attendant key. [R.] See Attendant keys, under Attendant,
a.

ADJUNCTION
Ad*junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjunctio, fr. adjungere: cf. F.
adjonction, and see Adjunct.]

Defn: The act of joining; the thing joined or added.

ADJUNCTIVE
Ad*junc"tive, a. Etym: [L. adjunctivus, fr. adjungere. See Adjunct.]

Defn: Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct.

ADJUNCTIVE
Ad*junc"tive, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, is joined.

ADJUNCTIVELY
Ad*junc"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adjunctive manner.

ADJUNCTLY
Ad*junct"ly, adv.

Defn: By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with.

ADJURATION
Ad`ju*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. adjuratio, fr. adjurare: cf. F.
adjuration. See Adjure.]

1. The act of adjuring; a solemn charging on oath, or under the
penalty of a curse; an earnest appeal.
What an accusation could not effect, an adjuration shall. Bp. Hall.

2. The form of oath or appeal.
Persons who . . . made use of prayer and adjurations. Addison.

ADJURATORY
Ad*ju"ra*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. adjuratorius.]

Defn: Containing an adjuration.

ADJURE
Ad*jure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjured; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjuring].
Etym: [L. adjurare, adjurdium, to swear to; later, to adjure: cf. F.
adjurer. See Jury.]

Defn: To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, or
under the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn or
impressive manner; to entreat earnestly.
Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before
the Lord, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho. Josh. vi.
26.
The high priest . . . said . . . I adjure thee by the living God,
that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ. Matt. xxvi. 63.
The commissioners adjured them not to let pass so favorable an
opportunity of securing their liberties. Marshall.

ADJURER
Ad*jur"er, n.

Defn: One who adjures.

ADJUST
Ad*just", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adjusted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adjusting.]
Etym: [OF. ajuster, ajoster (whence F. ajouter to add), LL. adjuxtare
to fit; fr. L. ad + juxta near; confused later with L. ad and justus
just, right, whence F. ajuster to adjust. See Just, v. t. and cf.
Adjute.]

1. To make exact; to fit; to make correspondent or conformable; to
bring into proper relations; as, to adjust a garment to the body, or
things to a standard.

2. To put in order; to regulate, or reduce to system.
Adjusting the orthography. Johnson.

3. To settle or bring to a satisfactory state, so that parties are
agreed in the result; as, to adjust accounts; the differences are
adjusted.

4. To bring to a true relative position, as the parts of an
instrument; to regulate for use; as, to adjust a telescope or
microscope.

Syn.
 -- To adapt; suit; arrange; regulate; accommodate; set right;
rectify; settle.

ADJUSTABLE
Ad*just"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adjusted.

ADJUSTAGE
Ad*just"age, n. Etym: [Cf. Ajutage.]

Defn: Adjustment. [R.]

ADJUSTER
Ad*just"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, adjusts.

ADJUSTING PLANE; ADJUSTING SURFACE
Adjusting plane or surface. (Aëronautics)

Defn: A small plane or surface, usually capable of adjustment but not
of manipulation, for preserving lateral balance in an aëroplane or
flying machine.

ADJUSTIVE
Ad*just"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to adjust. [R.]

ADJUSTMENT
Ad*just"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ajustement. See Adjust.]

1. The act of adjusting, or condition of being adjusted; act of
bringing into proper relations; regulation.
Success depends on the nicest and minutest adjustment of the parts
concerned. Paley.

2. (Law)

Defn: Settlement of claims; an equitable arrangement of conflicting
claims, as in set-off, contribution, exoneration, subrogation, and
marshaling. Bispham.

3. The operation of bringing all the parts of an instrument, as a
microscope or telescope, into their proper relative position for use;
the condition of being thus adjusted; as, to get a good adjustment;
to be in or out of adjustment.

Syn.
 -- Suiting; fitting; arrangement; regulation; settlement;
adaptation; disposition.

ADJUTAGE
Ad"ju*tage, n.

Defn: Same as Ajutage.

ADJUTANCY
Ad"ju*tan*cy, n. Etym: [See Adjutant.]

1. The office of an adjutant.

2. Skillful arrangement in aid; assistance.
It was, no doubt, disposed with all the adjutancy of definition and
division. Burke.

ADJUTANT
Ad"ju*tant, n. Etym: [L. adjutans, p. pr. of adjutare to help. See
Aid.]

1. A helper; an assistant.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A regimental staff officer, who assists the colonel, or
commanding officer of a garrison or regiment, in the details of
regimental and garrison duty. Adjutant general (a) (Mil.), the
principal staff officer of an army, through whom the commanding
general receives communications and issues military orders. In the U.
S. army he is brigadier general. (b) (Among the Jesuits), one of a
select number of fathers, who resided with the general of the order,
each of whom had a province or country assigned to his care.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of very large stork (Ciconia argala), a native of
India; -- called also the gigantic crane, and by the native name
argala. It is noted for its serpent-destroying habits.

ADJUTATOR
Ad"ju*ta`tor, n. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A corruption of Agitator.

ADJUTE
Ad*jute", v. t. Etym: [F. ajouter; confused with L. adjutare.]

Defn: To add. [Obs.]

ADJUTOR
Ad*ju"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. adjuvare. See Aid.]

Defn: A helper or assistant. [Archaic] Drayton.

ADJUTORY
Ad*ju"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. adjutorius.]

Defn: Serving to help or assist; helping. [Obs.]

ADJUTRIX
Ad*ju"trix, n. Etym: [L. See Adjutor.]

Defn: A female helper or assistant. [R.]

ADJUVANT
Ad"ju*vant, a. Etym: [L. adjuvans, p. pr. of adjuvare to aid: cf. F.
adjuvant. See Aid.]

Defn: Helping; helpful; assisting. [R.] "Adjuvant causes." Howell.

ADJUVANT
Ad"ju*vant, n.

1. An assistant. [R.] Yelverton.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An ingredient, in a prescription, which aids or modifies the
action of the principal ingredient.

ADLEGATION
Ad`le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. adlegatio, allegatio, a sending away; fr.
adlegare, allegare, to send away with a commission; ad in addition +
legare to send as ambassador. Cf. Allegation.]

Defn: A right formerly claimed by the states of the German Empire of
joining their own ministers with those of the emperor in public
treaties and negotiations to the common interest of the empire.
Encyc. Brit.

AD LIBITUM
Ad lib"i*tum

Defn: . At one's pleasure; as one wishes.

ADLOCUTION
Ad`lo*cu"tion, n.

Defn: See Allocution. [Obs.]

ADMARGINATE
Ad*mar"gin*ate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + margin.]

Defn: To write in the margin. [R.] Coleridge.

ADMAXILLARY
Ad*max"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. ad- + maxillary.] (Anat.)

Defn: Near to the maxilla or jawbone.

ADMEASURE
Ad*meas"ure, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OF. amesurer, LL. admensurare. See
Measure.]

1. To measure.

2. (Law)

Defn: To determine the proper share of, or the proper apportionment;
as, to admeasure dower; to admeasure common of pasture. Blackstone.

2. The measure of a thing; dimensions; size.

3. (Law)

Defn: Formerly, the adjustment of proportion, or ascertainment of
shares, as of dower or pasture held in common. This was by writ of
admeasurement, directed to the sheriff.

ADMEASURER
Ad*meas"ur*er, n.

Defn: One who admeasures.

ADMENSURATION
Ad*men`su*ra"tion, n. Etym: [LL. admensuratio; L. ad + mensurare to
measure. See Mensuration.]

Defn: Same as Admeasurement.

ADMINICLE
Ad*min"i*cle, n. Etym: [L. adminculum support, orig., that on which
the hand rests; ad + manus hand + dim. ending -culym.]

1. Help or support; an auxiliary. Grote.

2. (Law)

Defn: Corroborative or explanatory proof.

Note: In Scots law, any writing tending to establish the existence or
terms of a lost deed. Bell.

ADMINICULAR
Ad`mi*nic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Supplying help; auxiliary; corroborative; explanatory; as,
adminicular evidence. H. Spencer.

ADMINICULARY
Ad`mi*nic"u*la*ry, a.

Defn: Adminicular.

ADMINISTER
Ad*min"is*ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Administered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Administering.] Etym: [OE. aministren, OF. aministrer, F. administer,
fr. L. administrare; ad + ministrare to serve. See Minister.]

1. To manage or conduct, as public affairs; to direct or superintend
the execution, application, or conduct of; as, to administer the
government or the state.
For forms of government let fools contest: Whate'er is best
administered is best. Pope.

2. To dispense; to serve out; to supply; execute; as, to administer
relief, to administer the sacrament.
[Let zephyrs] administer their tepid, genial airs. Philips.
Justice was administered with an exactness and purity not before
known. Macaulay.

3. To apply, as medicine or a remedy; to give, as a dose or something
beneficial or suitable. Extended to a blow, a reproof, etc.
A noxious drug had been administered to him. Macaulay.

4. To tender, as an oath.
Swear . . . to keep the oath that we administer. Shak.

5. (Law)

Defn: To settle, as the estate of one who dies without a will, or
whose will fails of an executor.

Syn.
 -- To manage; conduct; minister; supply; dispense; give out;
distribute; furnish.

ADMINISTER
Ad*min"is*ter, v. i.

1. To contribute; to bring aid or supplies; to conduce; to minister.
A fountain . . . administers to the pleasure as well as the plenty of
the place. Spectator.

2. (Law)

Defn: To perform the office of administrator; to act officially; as,
A administers upon the estate of B.

ADMINISTER
Ad*min"is*ter, n.

Defn: Administrator. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADMINISTERIAL
Ad*min`is*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to administration, or to the executive part of
government.

ADMINISTRABLE
Ad*min"is*tra*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being administered; as, an administrable law.

ADMINISTRANT
Ad*min"is*trant, a. Etym: [F., p. pr. of administrer. See
Administer.]

Defn: Executive; acting; managing affairs.
 -- n.

Defn: One who administers.

ADMINISTRATE
Ad*min"is*trate, v. t. Etym: [L. administratus, p. p. of
administrare.]

Defn: To administer. [R.] Milman.

ADMINISTRATION
Ad*min`is*tra"tion, n. Etym: [OE. administracioun, L. administratio:
cf. F. administration.]

1. The act of administering; government of public affairs; the
service rendered, or duties assumed, in conducting affairs; the
conducting of any office or employment; direction; management.
His financial administration was of a piece with his military
administration. Macaulay.

2. The executive part of government; the persons collectively who are
intrusted with the execution of laws and the superintendence of
public affairs; the chief magistrate and his cabinet or council; or
the council, or ministry, alone, as in Great Britain.
A mild and popular administration. Macaulay.
The administration has been opposed in parliament. Johnson.

3. The act of administering, or tendering something to another;
dispensation; as, the administration of a medicine, of an oath, of
justice, or of the sacrament.

4. (Law)
(a) The management and disposal, under legal authority, of the estate
of an intestate, or of a testator having no competent executor.
(b) The management of an estate of a deceased person by an executor,
the strictly corresponding term execution not being in use.
Administration with the will annexed, administration granted where
the testator has appointed no executor, or where his appointment of
an executor for any cause has failed, as by death, incompetency,
refusal to act, etc.

Syn.
 -- Conduct; management; direction; regulation; execution;
dispensation; distribution.

ADMINISTRATIVE
Ad*min"is*tra`tive, a. Etym: [L. administrativus: cf. F.
administratif.]

Defn: Pertaining to administration; administering; executive; as, an
administrative body, ability, or energy.
 -- Ad*min"is*tra`tive*ly, adv.

ADMINISTRATOR
Ad*min`is*tra"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who administers affairs; one who directs, manages, executes,
or dispenses, whether in civil, judicial, political, or
ecclesiastical affairs; a manager.

2. (Law)

Defn: A man who manages or settles the estate of an intestate, or of
a testator when there is no competent executor; one to whom the right
of administration has been committed by competent authority.

ADMINISTRATORSHIP
Ad*min`is*tra"tor*ship, n.

Defn: The position or office of an administrator.

ADMINISTRATRIX
Ad*min`is*tra"trix, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A woman who administers; esp., one who administers the estate
of an intestate, or to whom letters of administration have been
granted; a female administrator.

ADMIRABILITY
Ad`mi*ra*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. admirabilitac.]

Defn: Admirableness. [R.] Johnson.

ADMIRABLE
Ad"mi*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. admirabilis: cf. F. admirable.]

1. Fitted to excite wonder; wonderful; marvelous. [Obs.]
In man there is nothing admirable but his ignorance and weakness.
Jer. Taylor.

2. Having qualities to excite wonder united with approbation;
deserving the highest praise; most excellent; -- used of persons or
things. "An admirable machine." "Admirable fortitude." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Wonderful; marvelous; surprising; excellent; delightful;
praiseworthy.

ADMIRABLENESS
Ad"mi*ra*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence.

ADMIRABLY
Ad"mi*ra*bly, adv.

Defn: In an admirable manner.

ADMIRAL
Ad"mi*ral, n. Etym: [OE. amiral, admiral, OF. amiral, ultimately fr.
Ar. amir-al-bahr commander of the sea; Ar. amir is commander, al is
the Ar. article, and amir-al, heard in different titles, was taken as
one word. Early forms of the word show confusion with L. admirabilis
admirable, fr. admirari to admire. It is said to have been introduced
into Europe by the Genoese or Venetians, in the 12th or 13th century.
Cf. Ameer, Emir.]

1. A naval officer of the highest rank; a naval officer of high rank,
of which there are different grades. The chief gradations in rank are
admiral, vice admiral, and rear admiral. The admiral is the commander
in chief of a fleet or of fleets.

2. The ship which carries the admiral; also, the most considerable
ship of a fleet.
Like some mighty admiral, dark and terrible, bearing down upon his
antagonist with all his canvas straining to the wind, and all his
thunders roaring from his broadsides. E. Everett.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America.
The larva feeds on nettles. Admiral shell (Zoöl.), the popular name
of an ornamental cone shell (Conus admiralis). Lord High Admiral, a
great officer of state, who (when this rare dignity is conferred) is
at the head of the naval administration of Great Britain.

ADMIRALSHIP
Ad"mi*ral*ship, n.

Defn: The office or position oaf an admiral; also, the naval skill of
an admiral.

ADMIRALTY
Ad"mi*ral*ty, n.; pl. Admiralties. Etym: [F. amirauté, for an older
amiralté, office of admiral, fr. LL. admiralitas. See Admiral.]

1. The office or jurisdiction of an admiral. Prescott.

2. The department or officers having authority over naval affairs
generally.

3. The court which has jurisdiction of maritime questions and
offenses.

Note: In England, admiralty jurisdiction was formerly vested in the
High Court of Admiralty, which was held before the Lord High Admiral,
or his deputy, styled the Judge of the Admiralty; but admiralty
jurisdiction is now vested in the probate, divorce, and admiralty
division of the High Justice. In America, there are no admiralty
courts distinct from others, but admiralty jurisdiction is vested in
the district courts of the United States, subject to revision by the
circuit courts and the Supreme Court of the United States. Admiralty
jurisprudence has cognizance of maritime contracts and torts,
collisions at sea, cases of prize in war, etc., and in America,
admiralty jurisdiction is extended to such matters, arising out of
the navigation of any of the public waters, as the Great Lakes and
rivers.

4. The system of jurisprudence of admiralty courts.

5. The building in which the lords of the admiralty, in England,
transact business.

ADMIRANCE
Ad*mir"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. admirance.]

Defn: Admiration. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADMIRATION
Ad`mi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. admiratio. See Admire.]

1. Wonder; astonishment. [Obs.]
Season your admiration for a while. Shak.

2. Wonder mingled with approbation or delight; an emotion excited by
a person or thing possessed of wonderful or high excellence; as,
admiration of a beautiful woman, of a landscape, of virtue.

3. Cause of admiration; something to excite wonder, or pleased
surprise; a prodigy.
Now, good Lafeu, bring in the admiration. Shak.
Note of admiration, the mark (!), called also exclamation point.

Syn.
 -- Wonder; approval; appreciation; adoration; reverence; worship.

ADMIRATIVE
Ad*mir"a*tive, a.

Defn: Relating to or expressing admiration or wonder. [R.] Earle.

ADMIRE
Ad*mire", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Admired; p. pr. & vb. n. Admiring.]
Etym: [F. admirer, fr. L. admirari; ad + mirari to wonder, for
smirari, akin to Gr. smi, and E. smile.]

1. To regard with wonder or astonishment; to view with surprise; to
marvel at. [Archaic]
Examples rather to be admired than imitated. Fuller.

2. To regard with wonder and delight; to look upon with an elevated
feeling of pleasure, as something which calls out approbation,
esteem, love, or reverence; to estimate or prize highly; as, to
admire a person of high moral worth, to admire a landscape.
Admired as heroes and as gods obeyed. Pope.

Note: Admire followed by the infinitive is obsolete or colloquial;
as, I admire to see a man consistent in his conduct.

Syn.
 -- To esteem; approve; delight in.

ADMIRE
Ad*mire", v. i.

Defn: To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; --
sometimes with at.
To wonder at Pharaoh, and even admire at myself. Fuller.

ADMIRED
Ad*mired", a.

1. Regarded with wonder and delight; highly prized; as, an admired
poem.

2. Wonderful; also, admirable. [Obs.] "Admired disorder." " Admired
Miranda." Shak.

ADMIRER
Ad*mir"er, n.

Defn: One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly. Cowper.

ADMIRING
Ad*mir"ing, a.

Defn: Expressing admiration; as, an admiring glance.
 -- Ad*mir"ing*ly, adv. Shak.

ADMISSIBILITY
Ad*mis`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. admissibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being admissible; admissibleness; as, the
admissibility of evidence.

ADMISSIBLE
Ad*mis"si*ble, a. Etym: [F. admissible, LL. admissibilis. See Admit.]

Defn: Entitled to be admitted, or worthy of being admitted; that may
be allowed or conceded; allowable; as, the supposition is hardly
admissible.
 -- Ad*mis"si*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ad*mis"si*bly, adv.

ADMISSION
Ad*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. admissio: cf. F. admission. See Admit.]

1. The act or practice of admitting.

2. Power or permission to enter; admittance; entrance; access; power
to approach.
What numbers groan for sad admission there! Young.

3. The granting of an argument or position not fully proved; the act
of acknowledging something
The too easy admission of doctrines. Macaulay.

4. (Law)

Defn: Acquiescence or concurrence in a statement made by another, and
distinguishable from a confession in that an admission presupposes
prior inquiry by another, but a confession may be made without such
inquiry.

5. A fact, point, or statement admitted; as, admission made out of
court are received in evidence.

6. (Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: Declaration of the bishop that he approves of the presentee as
a fit person to serve the cure of the church to which he is
presented. Shipley.

Syn.
 -- Admittance; concession; acknowledgment; concurrence; allowance.
See Admittance.

ADMISSIVE
Ad*mis"sive, a.

Defn: Implying an admission; tending to admit. [R.] Lamb.

ADMISSORY
Ad*mis"so*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to admission.

ADMIT
Ad*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Admitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Admitting.]
Etym: [OE. amitten, L. admittere, admissum; ad + mittere to send: cf.
F. admettre, OF. admettre, OF. ametre. See Missile.]

1. To suffer to enter; to grant entrance, whether into a place, or
into the mind, or consideration; to receive; to take; as, they were
into his house; to admit a serious thought into the mind; to admit
evidence in the trial of a cause.

2. To give a right of entrance; as, a ticket one into a playhouse.

3. To allow (one) to enter on an office or to enjoy a privilege; to
recognize as qualified for a franchise; as, to admit an attorney to
practice law; the prisoner was admitted to bail.

4. To concede as true; to acknowledge or assent to, as an allegation
which it is impossible to deny; to own or confess; as, the argument
or fact is admitted; he admitted his guilt.

5. To be capable of; to permit; as, the words do not admit such a
construction. In this sense, of may be used after the verb, or may be
omitted.
Both Houses declared that they could admit of no treaty with the
king. Hume.

ADMITTABLE
Ad*mit"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Admissible. Sir T. Browne.

ADMITTANCE
Ad*mit"tance, n.

1. The act of admitting.

2. Permission to enter; the power or right of entrance; also, actual
entrance; reception.
To gain admittance into the house. South.
He desires admittance to the king. Dryden.
To give admittance to a thought of fear. Shak.

3. Concession; admission; allowance; as, the admittance of an
argument. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

4. Admissibility. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Eng. Law)

Defn: The act of giving possession of a copyhold estate. Bouvier.

Syn.
 -- Admission; access; entrance; initiation.
 -- Admittance, Admission. These words are, to some extent, in a
state of transition and change. Admittance is now chiefly confined to
its primary sense of access into some locality or building. Thus we
see on the doors of factories, shops, etc. "No admittance." Its
secondary or moral sense, as "admittance to the church," is almost
entirely laid aside. Admission has taken to itself the secondary or
figurative senses; as, admission to the rights of citizenship;
admission to the church; the admissions made by one of the parties in
a dispute. And even when used in its primary sense, it is not
identical with admittance. Thus, we speak of admission into a
country, territory, and other larger localities, etc., where
admittance could not be used. So, when we speak of admission to a
concert or other public assembly, the meaning is not perhaps exactly
that of admittance, viz., access within the walls of the building,
but rather a reception into the audience, or access to the
performances. But the lines of distinction on this subject are one
definitely drawn.

ADMITTATUR
Ad`mit*ta"tur, n. Etym: [L., let him be admitted.]

Defn: The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.

ADMITTED; ADMITTEDLY
Ad*mit"ted, a.

Defn: Received as true or valid; acknowledged.
 -- Ad*mit"ted*ly adv.

Defn: Confessedly.

ADMITTER
Ad*mit"ter, n.

Defn: One who admits.

ADMIX
Ad*mix", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + mix: cf. L. admixtus, p. p. of
admiscere. See Mix.]

Defn: To mingle with something else; to mix. [R.]

ADMIXTION
Ad*mix"tion, n. Etym: [L. admixtio.]

Defn: A mingling of different things; admixture. Glanvill.

ADMIXTURE
Ad*mix"ture, n. Etym: [L. admiscere, admixtum, to admix; ad + miscere
to mix. See Mix.]

1. The act of mixing; mixture.

2. The compound formed by mixing different substances together.

3. That which is mixed with anything.

ADMONISH
Ad*mon"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Admonished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Admonishing.] Etym: [OE. amonesten, OF. amonester, F. admonester, fr.
a supposed LL. admonesstrare, fr. L. admonere to remind, warn; ad +
monere to warn. See Monition.]

1. To warn or notify of a fault; to reprove gently or kindly, but
seriously; to exhort. "Admonish him as a brother." 2 Thess. iii. 15.

2. To counsel against wrong practices; to cation or advise; to warn
against danger or an offense; -- followed by of, against, or a
subordinate clause.
Admonishing one another in psalms and hymns. Col. iii. 16.
I warned thee, I admonished thee, foretold The danger, and the
lurking enemy. Milton.

3. To instruct or direct; to inform; to notify.
Moses was admonished of God, when he was about to make the
tabernacle. Heb. viii. 5.

ADMONISHER
Ad*mon"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who admonishes.

ADMONISHMENT
Ad*mon"ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. amonestement, admonestement.]

Defn: Admonition. [R.] Shak.

ADMONITION
Ad`mo*ni"tion, n. Etym: [OE. amonicioun, OF. amonition, F.
admonition, fr. L. admonitio, fr. admonere. See Admonish.]

Defn: Gentle or friendly reproof; counseling against a fault or
error; expression of authoritative advice; friendly caution or
warning.

Syn.
 -- Admonition, Reprehension, Reproof. Admonition is prospective, and
relates to moral delinquencies; its object is to prevent further
transgression. Reprehension and reproof are retrospective, the former
being milder than the latter. A person of any age or station may be
liable to reprehension in case of wrong conduct; but reproof is the
act of a superior. It is authoritative fault-finding or censure
addressed to children or to inferiors.

ADMONITIONER
Ad`mo*ni"tion*er, n.

Defn: Admonisher. [Obs.]

ADMONITIVE
Ad*mon"i*tive, a.

Defn: Admonitory. [R.] Barrow.
 -- Ad*mon"i*tive*ly, adv.

ADMONITOR
Ad*mon"i*tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Admonisher; monitor.
Conscience is at most times a very faithful and prudent admonitor.
Shenstone.

ADMONITORIAL
Ad*mon`i*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Admonitory. [R.] "An admonitorial tone." Dickens.

ADMONITORY
Ad*mon"i*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. admonitorius.]

Defn: That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, an
admonitory glance.
 -- Ad*mon"i*to*ri*ly,, adv.

ADMONITRIX
Ad*mon"i*trix, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A female admonitor.

ADMORTIZATION
Ad*mor`ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [LL. admortizatio. Cf. Amortization.]
(Law)

Defn: The reducing or lands or tenements to mortmain. See Mortmain.

ADMOVE
Ad*move", v. t. Etym: [L. admovere. See Move.]

Defn: To move or conduct to or toward. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ADNASCENT
Ad*nas"cent, a. Etym: [L. adnascens, p. pr. of adnasci to be born,
grow.]

Defn: Growing to or on something else. "An adnascent plant." Evelyn.

ADNATE
Ad"nate, a. Etym: [L. adnatus, p. p. of adnasci. See Adnascent, and
cf. Agnate.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: Grown to congenitally.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing together; -- said only of organic cohesion of unlike
parts.
An anther is adnate when fixed by its whole length to the filament.
Gray.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Growing with one side adherent to a stem; -- a term applied to
the lateral zooids of corals and other compound animals.

ADNATION
Ad*na"tion, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The adhesion or cohesion of different floral verticils or sets
of organs.

ADNOMINAL
Ad*nom"i*nal, a. Etym: [L. ad + nomen noun.] (Gram.)

Defn: Pertaining to an adnoun; adjectival; attached to a noun. Gibbs.
 -- Ad*nom"i*nal*ly, adv.

ADNOUN
Ad"noun`, n. Etym: [Pref. ad- + noun.] (Gram.)

Defn: An adjective, or attribute. [R.] Coleridge.

ADNUBILATED
Ad*nu"bi*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. adnubilatus, p. p. of adnubilare.]

Defn: Clouded; obscured. [R.]

ADO
A*do", (1) v. inf., (2) n. Etym: [OE. at do, northern form for to do.
Cf. Affair.]

1. To do; in doing; as, there is nothing. "What is here ado" J.
Newton.

2. Doing; trouble; difficulty; troublesome business; fuss; bustle;
as, to make a great ado about trifles.
With much ado, he partly kept awake. Dryden.
Let's follow to see the end of this ado. Shak.

ADOBE
A*do"be, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective,
as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico.

ADOLESCENCE
Ad`o*les"cence, n. Etym: [Fr., fr. L. adolescentia.]

Defn: The state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood;
youth, or the period of life between puberty and maturity, generally
considered to be, in the male sex, from fourteen to twenty-one.
Sometimes used with reference to the lower animals.

ADOLESCENCY
Ad`o*les"cen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being adolescent; youthfulness.

ADOLESCENT
Ad`o*les"cent, a. Etym: [L. adolescens, p. pr. of adolescere to grow
up to; ad + the inchoative olescere to grow: cf. F. adolescent. See
Adult.]

Defn: Growing; advancing from childhood to maturity.
Schools, unless discipline were doubly strong, Detain their
adolescent charge too long. Cowper.

ADOLESCENT
Ad`o*les"cent, n.

Defn: A youth.

ADONAI
Ad`o*na"i, n. [Heb. adonai, lit., my lord.]

Defn: A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testament
by the word "Lord".

 The later Jews used its vowel points to fill out the tetragrammaton
Yhvh, or Ihvh, "the incommunicable name," and in reading substituted
"Adonai".

ADONEAN
Ad`o*ne"an, a. Etym: [L. Adon.]

Defn: Pertaining to Adonis; Adonic. "Fair Adonean Venus." Faber.

ADONIC
A*don"ic, a. Etym: [F. adonique: cf. L. Adonius.]

Defn: Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty.
 -- n.

Defn: An Adonic verse. Adonic verse, a verse consisting of a dactyl
and spondee.

ADONIS
A*do"nis, n. Etym: [L., gr. Gr.

1. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in the
chase by a wild boar.

2. A preëminently beautiful young man; a dandy.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the family Ranunculaceæ, containing the
pheasaut's eye (Adonis autumnalis); -- named from Adonis, whose blood
was fabled to have stained the flower.

ADONIST
A*do"nist, n. Etym: [Heb. my Lords.]

Defn: One who maintains that points of the Hebrew word translated
"Jehovah" are really the vowel points of the word "Adonai." See
Jehovist.

ADONIZE
Ad"o*nize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. adoniser, fr. Adonis.]

Defn: To beautify; to dandify.
I employed three good hours at least in adjusting and adonozing
myself. Smollett.

ADOOR; ADOORS
A*door, A*doors,

Defn: At the door; of the door; as, out adoors. Shak.
I took him in adoors. Vicar's Virgil (1630).

ADOPT
A*dopt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adopted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adopting.]
Etym: [L. adoptare; ad + optare to choose, desire: cf. F. adopter.
See Option.]

1. To take by choice into relationship, as, child, heir, friend,
citizen, etc. ; esp. to take voluntarily (a child of other parents)
to be in the place of, or as, one's own child.

2. To take or receive as one's own what is not so naturally; to
select and take or approve; as, to adopt the view or policy of
another; these resolutions were adopted.

ADOPTABLE
A*dopt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being adopted.

ADOPTED
A*dopt"ed, a.

Defn: Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son,
citizen, country, word.
 -- A*dopt"ed*ly, adv.

ADOPTER
A*dopt"er, n.

1. One who adopts.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A receiver, with two necks, opposite to each other, one of
which admits the neck of a retort, and the other is joined to another
receiver. It is used in distillations, to give more space to elastic
vapors, to increase the length of the neck of a retort, or to unite
two vessels whose openings have different diameters. [Written also
adapter.]

ADOPTION
A*dop"tion, n. Etym: [L. adoptio, allied to adoptare to adopt: cf. F.
adoption.]

1. The act of adopting, or state of being adopted; voluntary
acceptance of a child of other parents to be the same as one's own
child.

2. Admission to a more intimate relation; reception; as, the adoption
of persons into hospitals or monasteries, or of one society into
another.

3. The choosing and making that to be one's own which originally was
not so; acceptance; as, the adoption of opinions. Jer. Taylor.

ADOPTIONIST
A*dop"tion*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect which maintained that Christ was the Son of God
not by nature but by adoption.

ADOPTIOUS
A*dop"tious, a.

Defn: Adopted. [Obs.]

ADOPTIVE
A*dopt"ive, a. Etym: [L. adoptivus: cf. F. adoptif.]

Defn: Pertaining to adoption; made or acquired by adoption; fitted to
adopt; as, an adoptive father, an child; an adoptive language.
 -- A*dopt"ive*ly, adv.

ADORABILITY
A*dor`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Adorableness.

ADORABLE
A*dor"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. adorabilis, fr. adorare: cf. F. adorable.]

1. Deserving to be adored; worthy of divine honors.
The adorable Author of Christianity. Cheyne.

2. Worthy of the utmost love or respect.

ADORABLENESS
A*dor"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adorable, or worthy of adoration. Johnson.

ADORABLY
A*dor"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an adorable manner.

ADORATION
Ad`o*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. adoratio, fr. adorare: cf. F. adoration.]

1. The act of playing honor to a divine being; the worship paid to
God; the act of addressing as a god.
The more immediate objects of popular adoration amongst the heathens
were deified human beings. Farmer.

2. Homage paid to one in high esteem; profound veneration; intense
regard and love; fervent devotion.

3. A method of electing a pope by the expression of homage from two
thirds of the conclave.
[Pole] might have been chosen on the spot by adoration. Froude.

ADORE
A*dore", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adored; p. pr. & vb. n. Adoring.] Etym:
[OE. aouren, anouren, adoren, OF. aorer, adorer, F. adorer, fr. L.
adorare; ad + orare to speak, pray, os, oris, mouth. In OE. confused
with honor, the French prefix a- being confused with OE. a, an, on.
See Oral.]

1. To worship with profound reverence; to pay divine honors to; to
honor as deity or as divine.
Bishops and priests, . . . bearing the host, which he [James adored.
Smollett.

2. To love in the highest degree; to regard with the utmost esteem
and affection; to idolize.
The great mass of the population abhorred Popery and adored Montouth.
Macaulay.

ADORE
A*dore", v. t.

Defn: To adorn. [Obs.]
Congealed little drops which do the morn adore. Spenser.

ADOREMENT
A*dore"ment, n.

Defn: The act of adoring; adoration. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ADORER
A*dor"er, n.

Defn: One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly;
an ardent admirer. "An adorer of truth." Clarendon.
I profess myself her adorer, not her friend. Shak.

ADORINGLY
A*dor"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With adoration.

ADORN
A*dorn", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adorned; p. pr. & vb. n. Adorning.]
Etym: [OE. aournen, anournen, adornen, OF. aorner, fr. L. aaornare;
ad + ornare to furnish, embellish. See Adore, Ornate.]

Defn: To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to
advantage; to render pleasing or attractive.
As a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. Isa. lxi. 10.
At church, with meek and unaffected grace, His looks adorned the
venerable place. Goldsmith.

Syn.
 -- To deck; decorate; embellish; ornament; beautify; grace; dignify;
exalt; honor.
 -- To Adorn, Ornament, Decorate, Embellish. We decorate and ornament
by putting on some adjunct which is attractive or beautiful, and
which serves to heighten the general effect. Thus, a lady's head-
dress may be ornament or decorated with flowers or jewelry; a hall
may be decorated or ornament with carving or gilding, with wreaths of
flowers, or with hangings. Ornament is used in a wider sense than
decorate. To embellish is to beautify or ornament richly, not so much
by mere additions or details as by modifying the thing itself as a
whole. It sometimes means gaudy and artificial decoration. We
embellish a book with rich engravings; a style is embellished with
rich and beautiful imagery; a shopkeeper embellishes his front window
to attract attention. Adorn is sometimes identical with decorate, as
when we say, a lady was adorned with jewels. In other cases, it seems
to imply something more. Thus, we speak of a gallery of paintings as
adorned with the works of some of the great masters, or adorned with
noble statuary and columns. Here decorated and ornamented would
hardly be appropriate. There is a value in these works of genius
beyond mere show and ornament. Adorn may be used of what is purely
moral; as, a character adorned with every Christian grace. Here
neither decorate, nor ornament, nor embellish is proper.

ADORN
A*dorn", n.

Defn: Adornment. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADORN
A*dorn", a.

Defn: Adorned; decorated. [Obs.] Milton.

ADORNATION
Ad`or*na"tion, n.

Defn: Adornment. [Obs.]

ADORNER
A*dorn"er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, adorns; a beautifier.

ADORNINGLY
A*dorn"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By adorning; decoratively.

ADORNMENT
A*dorn"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. adornement. See Adorn.]

Defn: An adorning; an ornament; a decoration.

ADOSCULATION
Ad*os"cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. adosculari, adosculatum, to kiss. See
Osculate.] (Biol.)

Defn: Impregnation by external contact, without intromission.

ADOWN
A*down", adv. Etym: [OE. adun, adoun, adune. AS. of dune off the
hill. See Down.]

Defn: From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or on
the ground. [Archaic] "Thrice did she sink adown." Spenser.

ADOWN
A*down", prep.

Defn: Down. [Archaic & Poetic]
Her hair adown her shoulders loosely lay displayed. Prior.

ADPRESS
Ad*press", v. t. Etym: [L. adpressus, p. p. of adprimere.]

Defn: See Appressed.
 -- Ad*pressed",, a.

ADRAD
A*drad", p. a. Etym: [P. p. of adread.]

Defn: Put in dread; afraid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ADRAGANT
Ad"ra*gant, n. Etym: [F., a corruption of tragacanth.]

Defn: Gum tragacanth. Brande & C.

ADREAD
A*dread", v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. andrædan, ondræ; pref. a- (for and
against) + dræden to dread. See Dread.]

Defn: To dread. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

ADREAMED
A*dreamed", p. p.

Defn: Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, to
dream. [Obs.]

ADRENAL
Ad*re"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. ad- + renal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Suprarenal.

ADRENALINE; ADRENALIN
Ad*re"nal*ine, n. Also Ad*re"nal*in. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline substance, C9H13O3N, obtained from suprarenal
extract, of which it is regarded as the active principle. It is used
in medicine as a stimulant and hemostatic.

ADRIAN
A"dri*an, a. Etym: [L. Hadrianus.]

Defn: Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows.

ADRIATIC
A`dri*at"ic, a. Etym: [L. Adriaticus, Hadriaticus, fr. Adria or
Hadria, a town of the Veneti.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sea so named, the northwestern part of
which is known as the Gulf of Venice.

ADRIFT
A*drift", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- (for on) + drift.]

Defn: Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy of
wind and waves. Also fig.
So on the sea shall be set adrift. Dryden.
Were from their daily labor turned adrift. Wordsworth.

ADRIP
A*drip", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- in + drip.]

Defn: In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip. D. G. Mitchell.

ADROGATE
Ad"ro*gate, v. t. Etym: [See Arrogate.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: To adopt (a person who is his own master).

ADROGATION
Ad`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. adrogatio, arrogatio, fr. adrogare. See
Arrogate.] (Rom. Law)

Defn: A kind of adoption in ancient Rome. See Arrogation.

ADROIT
A*droit", a. Etym: [F. adroit; à (L. ad) = droit straight, right, fr.
L. directus, p. p. of dirigere. See Direct.]

Defn: Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the
mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger
or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied
to persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply.
"Adroit in the application of the telescope and quadrant." Horsley.
"He was adroit in intrigue." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Dexterous; skillful; expert; ready; clever; deft; ingenious;
cunning; ready-witted.

ADROITLY
A*droit"ly, adv.

Defn: In an adroit manner.

ADROITNESS
A*droit"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being adroit; skill and readiness; dexterity.
Adroitness was as requisite as courage. Motley.

Syn.
 -- See Skill.

ADRY
A*dry", a. Etym: [Pref. a- (for on) + dry.]

Defn: In a dry or thirsty condition. "A man that is adry." Burton.

ADSCITITIOUS
Ad`sci*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. adscitus, p. p. of adsciscere,
asciscere, to take knowingly; ad + sciscere to seek to know, approve,
scire to know.]

Defn: Supplemental; additional; adventitious; ascititious.
"Adscititious evidence." Bowring.
 -- Ad`sci*ti"tious*ly, adv.

ADSCRIPT
Ad"script, a. Etym: [L. adscriptus, p. p. of adscribere to enroll.
See Ascribe.]

Defn: Held to service as attached to the soil; -- said of feudal
serfs.

ADSCRIPT
Ad"script, n.

Defn: One held to service as attached to the glebe or estate; a
feudal serf. Bancroft.

ADSCRIPTIVE
Ad*scrip"tive, a.Etym: [L. adscriptivus. See Adscript.]

Defn: Attached or annexed to the glebe or estate and transferable
with it. Brougham.

ADSIGNIFICATION
Ad*sig`ni*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Additional signification. [R.] Tooke.

ADSIGNIFY
Ad*sig"ni*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. adsignificare to show.]

Defn: To denote additionally. [R.] Tooke.

ADSTRICT
Ad*strict", v. t.
 -- Ad*stric"tion, n.

Defn: See Astrict, and Astriction.

ADSTRICTORY
Ad*stric"to*ry, a.

Defn: See Astrictory.

ADSTRINGENT
Ad*strin"gent, a.

Defn: See Astringent.

ADSUKI BEAN
Ad*su"ki bean. [Jap. adzuki.]

Defn: A cultivated variety of the Asiatic gram, now introduced into
the United States.

ADULARIA
Ad`u*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [From Adula, a mountain peak in Switzerland,
where fine specimens are found.] (Min.)

Defn: A transparent or translucent variety of common feldspar, or
orthoclase, which often shows pearly opalescent reflections; --
called by lapidaries moonstone.

ADULATE
Ad"u*late, v. t. Etym: [L. adulatus, p. p. of adulari.]

Defn: To flatter in a servile way. Byron.

ADULATION
Ad`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [F. adulation, fr. L. adulatio, fr. adulari,
adulatum, to flatter.]

Defn: Servile flattery; praise in excess, or beyond what is merited.
Think'st thou the fiery fever will go out With titles blown from
adulation Shak.

Syn.
 -- Sycophancy; cringing; fawning; obsequiousness; blandishment.
 -- Adulation, Flattery, Compliment. Men deal in compliments from a
desire to please; they use flattery either from undue admiration, or
a wish to gratify vanity; they practice adulation from sordid
motives, and with a mingled spirit of falsehood and hypocrisy.
Compliment may be a sincere expression of due respect and esteem, or
it may be unmeaning; flattery is apt to become gross; adulation is
always servile, and usually fulsome.

ADULATOR
Ad"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. adulari: cf. F. adulateur.]

Defn: A servile or hypocritical flatterer. Carlyle.

ADULATORY
Ad"u*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. adulatorius, fr. adulari: cf. OF.
adulatoire.]

Defn: Containing excessive praise or compliment; servilely praising;
flattering; as, an adulatory address.
A mere rant of adulatory freedom. Burke.

ADULATRESS
Ad"u*la`tress, n.

Defn: A woman who flatters with servility.

ADULT
A*dult", a. Etym: [L. adultus, p. p. of adolescere, akin to alere to
nourish: cf. F. adulte. See Adolescent, Old.]

Defn: Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength;
matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age.

ADULT
A*dult", n.

Defn: A person, animal, or plant grown to full size and strength; one
who has reached maturity.

Note: In the common law, the term is applied to a person who has
attained full age or legal majority; in the civil law, to males after
the age of fourteen, and to females after twelve.

ADULTER
A*dul"ter, v. i. Etym: [L. adulterare.]

Defn: To commit adultery; to pollute. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ADULTERANT
A*dul"ter*ant, n. Etym: [L. adulterans, p. pr. of adulterare.]

Defn: That which is used to adulterate anything.
 -- a. Adulterating; as, adulterant agents and processes.

ADULTERATE
A*dul"ter*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adulterated; p. pr. & vb. n
Adulterating.] Etym: [L. adulteratus, p. p. of adulterare, fr.
adulter adulterer, prob. fr. ad + alter other, properly one who
approaches another on account of unlawful love. Cf. Advoutry.]

1. To defile by adultery. [Obs.] Milton.

2. To corrupt, debase, or make impure by an admixture of a foreign or
a baser substance; as, to adulterate food, drink, drugs, coin, etc.
The present war has . . . adulterated our tongue with strange words.
Spectator.

Syn.
 -- To corrupt; defile; debase; contaminate; vitiate; sophisticate.

ADULTERATE
A*dul"ter*ate, v. i.

Defn: To commit adultery. [Obs.]

ADULTERATE
A*dul"ter*ate, a.

1. Tainted with adultery.

2. Debased by the admixture of a foreign substance; adulterated;
spurious.
 -- A*dul"ter*ate*ly, adv.
 -- A*dul"ter*ate*ness, n.

ADULTERATION
A*dul`ter*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. adulteratio.]

1. The act of adulterating; corruption, or debasement (esp. of food
or drink) by foreign mixture.
The shameless adulteration of the coin. Prescott.

2. An adulterated state or product.

ADULTERATOR
A*dul"ter*a`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who adulterates or corrupts. [R.] Cudworth.

ADULTERER
A*dul"ter*er, n. Etym: [Formed fr. the verb adulter, with the E.
ending -er. See Advoutrer.]

1. A man who commits adultery; a married man who has sexual
intercourse with a woman not his wife.

2. (Script.)

Defn: A man who violates his religious covenant. Jer. ix. 2.

ADULTERESS
A*dul"ter*ess, n. Etym: [Fem. from L. adulter. Cf. Advoutress.]

1. A woman who commits adultery.

2. (Script.)

Defn: A woman who violates her religious engagements. James iv. 4.

ADULTERINE
A*dul"ter*ine, a.Etym: [L. adulterinus, fr. adulter.]

Defn: Proceeding from adulterous intercourse. Hence: Spurious;
without the support of law; illegal.
When any particular class of artificers or traders thought proper to
act as a corporation without a charter, such were called adulterine
guilds. Adam Smith.

ADULTERINE
A*dul"ter*ine, n.

Defn: An illegitimate child. [R.]

ADULTERIZE
A*dul"ter*ize, v. i.

Defn: To commit adultery. Milton.

ADULTEROUS
A*dul"ter*ous, a.

1. Guilty of, or given to, adultery; pertaining to adultery; illicit.
Dryden.

2. Characterized by adulteration; spurious. "An adulterous mixture."
[Obs.] Smollett.

ADULTEROUSLY
A*dul"ter*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adulterous manner.

ADULTERY
A*dul"ter*y, n.; pl. Adulteries(#). Etym: [L. adulterium. See
Advoutry.]

1. The unfaithfulness of a married person to the marriage bed; sexual
intercourse by a married man with another than his wife, or voluntary
sexual intercourse by a married woman with another than her husband.

Note: It is adultery on the part of the married wrongdoer. The word
has also been used to characterize the act of an unmarried
participator, the other being married. In the United States the
definition varies with the local statutes. Unlawful intercourse
between two married persons is sometimes called double adultery;
between a married and an unmarried person, single adultery.

2. Adulteration; corruption. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

3. (Script.)
(a) Lewdness or unchastity of thought as well as act, as forbidden by
the seventh commandment.
(b) Faithlessness in religion. Jer. iii. 9.

4. (Old Law)

Defn: The fine and penalty imposed for the offense of adultery.

5. (Eccl.)

Defn: The intrusion of a person into a bishopric during the life of
the bishop.

6. Injury; degradation; ruin. [Obs.]
You might wrest the caduceus out of my hand to the adultery and spoil
of nature. B. Jonson.

ADULTNESS
A*dult"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being adult.

ADUMBRANT
Ad*um"brant, a. Etym: [L. adumbrans, p. pr. of adumbrare.]

Defn: Giving a faint shadow, or slight resemblance; shadowing forth.

ADUMBRATE
Ad*um"brate, v. t. Etym: [L. adumbratus, p. p. of adumbrare; ad +
umbrare to shade; umbra shadow.]

1. To give a faint shadow or slight representation of; to outline; to
shadow forth.
Both in the vastness and the richness of the visible universe the
invisible God is adumbrated. L. Taylor.

2. To overshadow; to shade.

ADUMBRATION
Ad`um*bra"tion, n. Etym: [L. adumbratio.]

1. The act of adumbrating, or shadowing forth.

2. A faint sketch; an outline; an imperfect portrayal or
representation of a thing.
Elegant adumbrations of sacred truth. Bp. Horsley.

3. (Her.)

Defn: The shadow or outlines of a figure.

ADUMBRATIVE
Ad*um"bra*tive, a.

Defn: Faintly representing; typical. Carlyle.

ADUNATION
Ad`u*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. adunatio; ad + unus one.]

Defn: A uniting; union. Jer. Taylor.

ADUNC; ADUNQUE
A*dunc", A*dunque", a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Hooked; as, a parrot has an adunc bill.

ADUNCITY
A*dun"ci*ty, n. Etym: [L. aduncitas. See Aduncous.]

Defn: Curvature inwards; hookedness.
The aduncity of the beaks of hawks. Pope.

ADUNCOUS
A*dun"cous, a. Etym: [L. aduncus; ad + uncus hooked, hook.]

Defn: Curved inwards; hooked.

ADURE
A*dure", v. t. Etym: [L. adurere; ad + urere to burn.]

Defn: To burn up. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADUROL
Ad"u*rol, n. (Photog.)

Defn: Either of two compounds, a chlorine derivative and bromine
derivative, of hydroquinone, used as developers.

ADUST
A*dust", a. Etym: [L. adustus, p. p. of adurere: cf. F. aduste.]

1. Inflamed or scorched; fiery. "The Libyan air adust." Milton.

2. Looking as if or scorched; sunburnt.
A tall, thin man, of an adust complexion. Sir W. Scott.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Having much heat in the constitution and little serum in the
blood. [Obs.] Hence: Atrabilious; sallow; gloomy.

ADUSTED
A*dust"ed, a.

Defn: Burnt; adust. [Obs.] Howell.

ADUSTIBLE
A*dust"i*ble, a.

Defn: That may be burnt. [Obs.]

ADUSTION
A*dus"tion, n. Etym: [L. adustio, fr. adurere, adustum: cf. F.
adustion.]

1. The act of burning, or heating to dryness; the state of being thus
heated or dried. [Obs.] Harvey.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: Cauterization. Buchanan.

AD VALOREM
Ad va*lo"rem. Etym: [L., according to the value.] (Com.)

Defn: A term used to denote a duty or charge laid upon goods, at a
certain rate per cent upon their value, as stated in their invoice, -
- in opposition to a specific sum upon a given quantity or number;
as, an ad valorem duty of twenty per cent.

ADVANCE
Ad*vance", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advanced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Advancing(#).] Etym: [OE. avancen, avauncen, F. avancer, fr. a
supposed LL. abantiare; ab + ante (F. avant) before. The spelling
with d was a mistake, a- being supposed to be fr. L. ad. See Avaunt.]

1. To bring forward; to move towards the van or front; to make to go
on.

2. To raise; to elevate. [Archaic]
They . . . advanced their eyelids. Shak.

3. To raise to a higher rank; to promote.
Ahasueres . . . advanced him, and set his seat above all the princes.
Esther iii. 1.

4. To accelerate the growth or progress; to further; to forward; to
help on; to aid; to heighten; as, to advance the ripening of fruit;
to advance one's interests.

5. To bring to view or notice; to offer or propose; to show; as, to
advance an argument.
Some ne'er advance a judgment of their own. Pope.

6. To make earlier, as an event or date; to hasten.

7. To furnish, as money or other value, before it becomes due, or in
aid of an enterprise; to supply beforehand; as, a merchant advances
money on a contract or on goods consigned to him.

8. To raise to a higher point; to enhance; to raise in rate; as, to
advance the price of goods.

9. To extol; to laud. [Obs.]
Greatly advancing his gay chivalry. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To raise; elevate; exalt; aggrandize; improve; heighten;
accelerate; allege; adduce; assign.

ADVANCE
Ad*vance", v. i.

1. To move or go forward; to proceed; as, he advanced to greet me.

2. To increase or make progress in any respect; as, to advance in
knowledge, in stature, in years, in price.

3. To rise in rank, office, or consequence; to be preferred or
promoted.
Advanced to a level with ancient peers. Prescott.

ADVANCE
Ad*vance", n. Etym: [Cf. F. avance, fr. avancer. See Advance, v.]

1. The act of advancing or moving forward or upward; progress.

2. Improvement or progression, physically, mentally, morally, or
socially; as, an advance in health, knowledge, or religion; an
advance in rank or office.

3. An addition to the price; rise in price or value; as, an advance
on the prime cost of goods.

4. The first step towards the attainment of a result; approach made
to gain favor, to form an acquaintance, to adjust a difference, etc.;
an overture; a tender; an offer; -- usually in the plural.
[He] made the like advances to the dissenters. Swift.

5. A furnishing of something before an equivalent is received (as
money or goods), towards a capital or stock, or on loan; payment
beforehand; the money or goods thus furnished; money or value
supplied beforehand.
I shall, with pleasure, make the necessary advances. Jay.
The account was made up with intent to show what advances had been
made. Kent.
In advance (a) In front; before. (b) Beforehand; before an equivalent
is received. (c) In the state of having advanced money on account;
as, A is advance to B a thousand dollars or pounds.

ADVANCE
Ad*vance", a.

Defn: Before in place, or beforehand in time; -- used for advanced;
as, an advance guard, or that before the main guard or body of an
army; advance payment, or that made before it is due; advance proofs,
advance sheets, pages of a forthcoming volume, received in advance of
the time of publication.

ADVANCED
Ad*vanced", a.

1. In the van or front.

2. In the front or before others, as regards progress or ideas; as,
advanced opinions, advanced thinkers.

3. Far on in life or time.
A gentleman advanced in years, with a hard experience written in his
wrinkles. Hawthorne.
Advanced guard, a detachment of troops which precedes the march of
the main body.

ADVANCEMENT
Ad*vance"ment, n. Etym: [OE. avancement, F. avancement. See Advance,
v. t.]

1. The act of advancing, or the state of being advanced; progression;
improvement; furtherance; promotion to a higher place or dignity; as,
the advancement of learning.
In heaven . . . every one (so well they love each other) rejoiceth
and hath his part in each other's advancement. Sir T. More.
True religion . . . proposes for its end the joint advancement of the
virtue and happiness of the people. Horsley.

2. An advance of money or value; payment in advance. See Advance, 5.

3. (Law)

Defn: Property given, usually by a parent to a child, in advance of a
future distribution.

4. Settlement on a wife, or jointure. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADVANCER
Ad*van"cer, n.

1. One who advances; a promoter.

2. A second branch of a buck's antler. Howell.

ADVANCING EDGE
Ad*van"cing edge. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The front edge (in direction of motion) of a supporting
surface; -- contr. with following edge, which is the rear edge.

ADVANCING SURFACE
Ad*van"cing sur"face. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The first of two or more surfaces arranged in tandem; -- contr.
with following surface, which is the rear surface.

ADVANCIVE
Ad*van"cive, a.

Defn: Tending to advance. [R.]

ADVANTAGE
Ad*van"tage, n. Etym: [OE. avantage, avauntage, F. avantage, fr.
avant before. See Advance, and cf. Vantage.]

1. Any condition, circumstance, opportunity, or means, particularly
favorable to success, or to any desired end; benefit; as, the enemy
had the advantage of a more elevated position.
Give me advantage of some brief discourse. Shak.
The advantages of a close alliance. Macaulay.

2. Superiority; mastery; -- with of or over.
Lest Satan should get an advantage of us. 2 Cor. ii. 11.

3. Superiority of state, or that which gives it; benefit; gain;
profit; as, the advantage of a good constitution.

4. Interest of money; increase; overplus (as the thirteenth in the
baker's dozen). [Obs.]
And with advantage means to pay thy love. Shak.
Advantage ground, vantage ground. [R.] Clarendon.
 -- To have the advantage of (any one), to have a personal knowledge
of one who does not have a reciprocal knowledge. "You have the
advantage of me; I don't remember ever to have had the honor."
Sheridan.
 -- To take advantage of, to profit by; (often used in a bad sense)
to overreach, to outwit.

Syn.
 -- Advantage, Advantageous, Benefit, Beneficial. We speak of a thing
as a benefit, or as beneficial, when it is simply productive of good;
as, the benefits of early discipline; the beneficial effects of
adversity. We speak of a thing as an advantage, or as advantageous,
when it affords us the means of getting forward, and places us on a
"vantage ground" for further effort. Hence, there is a difference
between the benefits and the advantages of early education; between a
beneficial and an advantageous investment of money.

ADVANTAGE
Ad*van"tage, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advantaged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Advantaging.] Etym: [F. avantager, fr. avantage. See Advance.]

Defn: To give an advantage to; to further; to promote; to benefit; to
profit.
The truth is, the archbishop's own stiffness and averseness to comply
with the court designs, advantaged his adversaries against him.
Fuller.
What is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and lose
himself, or be cast away Luke ix. 25.
To advantage one's self of, to avail one's self of. [Obs.]

ADVANTAGEABLE
Ad*van"tage*a*ble, a.

Defn: Advantageous. [Obs.]

ADVANTAGEOUS
Ad`van*ta"geous, a. Etym: [F. avantageux, fr. avantage.]

Defn: Being of advantage; conferring advantage; gainful; profitable;
useful; beneficial; as, an advantageous position; trade is
advantageous to a nation.
Advabtageous comparison with any other country. Prescott.
You see . . . of what use a good reputation is, and how swift and
advantageous a harbinger it is, wherever one goes. Chesterfield.

ADVANTAGEOUSLY
Ad`van*ta"geous*ly, adv.

Defn: Profitably; with advantage.

ADVANTAGEOUSNESS
Ad`van*ta"geous*ness, n.

Defn: Profitableness.

ADVENE
Ad*vene", v. i. Etym: [L. advenire; ad + venire to come: cf. F.
avenir, advenir. See Come.]

Defn: To accede, or come (to); to be added to something or become a
part of it, though not essential. [R.]
Where no act of the will advenes as a coefficient. Coleridge.

ADVENIENT
Ad*ven"ient, a. Etym: [L. adviens, p. pr.]

Defn: Coming from outward causes; superadded. [Obs.]

ADVENT
Ad`vent, n. Etym: [L. adventus, fr. advenire, adventum: cf. F. avent.
See Advene.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: The period including the four Sundays before Christmas. Advent
Sunday (Eccl.), the first Sunday in the season of Advent, being
always the nearest Sunday to the feast of St. Andrew (Now. 30).
Shipley.

2. The first or the expected second coming of Christ.

3. Coming; any important arrival; approach.
Death's dreadful advent. Young.
Expecting still his advent home. Tennyson.

ADVENTIST
Ad"vent*ist, n.

Defn: One of a religious body, embracing several branches, who look
for the proximate personal coming of Christ; -- called also Second
Adventists. Schaff-Herzog Encyc.

ADVENTITIOUS
Ad`ven*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. adventitius.]

1. Added extrinsically; not essentially inherent; accidental or
causal; additional; supervenient; foreign.
To things of great dimensions, if we annex an adventitious idea of
terror, they become without comparison greater. Burke.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Out of the proper or usual place; as, adventitious buds or
roots.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Accidentally or sparingly spontaneous in a country or district;
not fully naturalized; adventive; -- applied to foreign plants.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Acquired, as diseases; accidental.
 -- Ad`ven*ti"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Ad`ven*ti"tious*ness, n.

ADVENTIVE
Ad*ven"tive, a.

1. Accidental.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Adventitious. Gray.

ADVENTIVE
Ad*ven"tive, n.

Defn: A thing or person coming from without; an immigrant. [R.]
Bacon.

ADVENTUAL
Ad*ven"tu*al, a.

Defn: Relating to the season of advent. Sanderson.

ADVENTURE
Ad*ven"ture, n. Etym: [OE. aventure, aunter, anter, F. aventure, fr.
LL. adventura, fr. L. advenire, adventum, to arrive, which in the
Romance languages took the sense of "to happen, befall." See Advene.]

1. That which happens without design; chance; hazard; hap; hence,
chance of danger or loss.
Nay, a far less good to man it will be found, if she must, at all
adventures, be fastened upon him individually. Milton.

2. Risk; danger; peril. [Obs.]
He was in great adventure of his life. Berners.

3. The encountering of risks; hazardous and striking enterprise; a
bold undertaking, in which hazards are to be encountered, and the
issue is staked upon unforeseen events; a daring feat.
He loved excitement and adventure. Macaulay.

4. A remarkable occurrence; a striking event; a stirring incident;
as, the adventures of one's life. Bacon.

5. A mercantile or speculative enterprise of hazard; a venture; a
shipment by a merchant on his own account. A bill of adventure
(Com.), a writing setting forth that the goods shipped are at the
owner's risk.

Syn.
 -- Undertaking; enterprise; venture; event.

ADVENTURE
Ad*ven"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Adventured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Adventuring.] Etym: [OE. aventuren, auntren, F. aventurer, fr.
aventure. See Adventure, n.]

1. To risk, or hazard; jeopard; to venture.
He would not adventure himself into the theater. Acts xix. 31.

2. To venture upon; to run the risk of; to dare.
Yet they adventured to go back. Bunyan,
Discriminations might be adventured. J. Taylor.

ADVENTURE
Ad*ven"ture, v. i.

Defn: To try the chance; to take the risk.
I would adventure for such merchandise. Shak.

ADVENTUREFUL
Ad*ven"ture*ful, a.

Defn: Given to adventure.

ADVENTURER
Ad*ven"tur*er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aventurier.]

1. One who adventures; as, the merchant adventurers; one who seeks
his fortune in new and hazardous or perilous enterprises.

2. A social pretender on the lookout for advancement.

ADVENTURESOME
Ad*ven"ture*some, a.

Defn: Full of risk; adventurous; venturesome.
 -- Ad*ven"ture*some*ness, n.

ADVENTURESS
Ad*ven"tur*ess, n.

Defn: A female adventurer; a woman who tries to gain position by
equivocal means.

ADVENTUROUS
Ad*ven"tur*ous, a. Etym: [OE. aventurous, aunterous, OF. aventuros,
F. aventureux, fr. aventure. See Adventure, n.]

1. Inclined to adventure; willing to incur hazard; prone to embark in
hazardous enterprise; rashly daring; -- applied to persons.
Bold deed thou hast presumed, adventurous Eve. Milton.

2. Full of hazard; attended with risk; exposing to danger; requiring
courage; rash; -- applied to acts; as, an adventurous undertaking,
deed, song.

Syn.
 -- Rash; foolhardy; presumptuous; enterprising; daring; hazardous;
venturesome. See Rash.

ADVENTUROUSLY
Ad*ven"tur*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an adventurous manner; venturesomely; boldly; daringly.

ADVENTUROUSNESS
Ad*ven"tur*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being adventurous; daring;
venturesomeness.

ADVERB
Ad"verb, n. Etym: [L. adverbium; ad + verbum word, verb: cf. F.
adverbe.] (Gram.)

Defn: A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle,
adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writes
well; paper extremely white.

ADVERBIAL
Ad*ver"bi*al, a. Etym: [L. adverbialis: cf. F. adverbial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an adverb; of the nature of an adverb; as,
an adverbial phrase or form.

ADVERBIALITY
Ad*ver`bi*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being adverbial. Earle.

ADVERBIALIZE
Ad*ver"bi*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To give the force or form of an adverb to.

ADVERBIALLY
Ad*ver"bi*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an adverb.

ADVERSARIA
Ad`ver*sa"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [L. adversaria (sc. scripta), neut. pl.
of adversarius.]

Defn: A miscellaneous collection of notes, remarks, or selections; a
commonplace book; also, commentaries or notes.
These parchments are supposed to have been St. Paul's adversaria. Bp.
Bull.

ADVERSARIOUS
Ad`ver*sa"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Hostile. [R.] Southey.

ADVERSARY
Ad`ver*sa*ry, n.; pl. Adversaries. Etym: [OE. adversarie, direct fr.
the Latin, and adversaire, fr. OF. adversier, aversier, fr. L.
adversarius (a.) turned toward, (n.) an adversary. See Adverse.]

Defn: One who is turned against another or others with a design to
oppose

or resist them; a member of an opposing or hostile party; an
opponent; an antagonist; an enemy; a foe.
His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries. Shak.
Agree with thine adversary quickly. Matt. v. 25.
It may be thought that to vindicate the permanency of truth is to
dispute without an adversary. Beattie.
The Adversary, The Satan, or the Devil.

Syn.
 -- Adversary, Enemy, Opponent, Antagonist. Enemy is the only one of
these words which necessarily implies a state of personal hostility.
Men may be adversaries, antagonists, or opponents to each other in
certain respects, and yet have no feelings of general animosity. An
adversary may be simply one who is placed for a time in a hostile
position, as in a lawsuit, an argument, in chess playing, or at
fence. An opponent is one who is ranged against another (perhaps
passively) on the opposing side; as a political opponent, an opponent
in debate. An antagonist is one who struggles against another with
active effort, either in a literal fight or in verbal debate.

ADVERSARY
Ad"ver*sa*ry, a.

1. Opposed; opposite; adverse; antagonistic. [Archaic] Bp. King.

2. (Law)

Defn: Having an opposing party; not unopposed; as, an adversary suit.

ADVERSATIVE
Ad*ver"sa*tive, a. Etym: [L. adversativus, fr. adversari.]

Defn: Expressing contrariety, opposition, or antithesis; as, an
adversative conjunction (but, however, yet, etc. ); an adversative
force.
 -- Ad*ver"sa*tive*ly, adv.

ADVERSATIVE
Ad*ver"sa*tive, n.

Defn: An adversative word. Harris.

ADVERSE
Ad"verse, a. Etym: [OE. advers, OF. avers, advers, fr. L. adversus,
p. p. advertere to turn to. See Advert.]

1. Acting against, or in a contrary direction; opposed; contrary;
opposite; conflicting; as, adverse winds; an adverse party; a spirit
adverse to distinctions of caste.

2. Opposite. "Calpe's adverse height." Byron.

3. In hostile opposition to; unfavorable; unpropitious; contrary to
one's wishes; unfortunate; calamitous; afflictive; hurtful; as,
adverse fates, adverse circumstances, things adverse.
Happy were it for us all if we bore prosperity as well and wisely as
we endure an adverse fortune. Southey.
Adverse possession (Law), a possession of real property avowedly
contrary to some claim of title in another person. Abbott.

Syn.
 -- Averse; reluctant; unwilling. See Averse.

ADVERSE
Ad*verse", v. t. Etym: [L. adversari: cf. OF. averser.]

Defn: To oppose; to resist. [Obs.] Gower.

ADVERSELY
Ad"verse*ly (277), adv.

Defn: In an adverse manner; inimically; unfortunately; contrariwise.

ADVERSENESS
Ad"verse*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being adverse; opposition.

ADVERSIFOLIATE; ADVERSIFOLIOUS
Ad*ver`si*fo"li*ate, Ad*ver`si*fo"li*ous a. Etym: [L. adver + folium
leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having opposite leaves, as plants which have the leaves so
arranged on the stem.

ADVERSION
Ad*ver"sion, n.Etym: [L. adversio]

Defn: A turning towards; attention. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ADVERSITY
Ad*ver"si*ty, n.; pl. Adversities(#). Etym: [OE. adversite, F.
adversité, fr. L. adversitas.]

1. Opposition; contrariety. [Obs.] Wyclif.
Adversity is not without comforts and hopes. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Affliction; distress; misery; disaster; trouble; suffering;
trial.

ADVERT
Ad*vert", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Adverted; p. pr. & vb. n. Adverting.]
Etym: [L. advertere, v. t., to turn to; ad + vertere to turn: cf. F.
avertir. See Advertise.]

Defn: To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed or
notice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said.
I may again advert to the distinction. Owen.

Syn.- To refer; allude; regard. See Refer.

ADVERTENCE; ADVERTENCY
Ad*vert"ence, Ad*vert"en*cy,Etym: [OF. advertence, avertence, LL.
advertentia, fr. L. advertens. See Advertent.]

Defn: The act of adverting, of the quality of being advertent;
attention; notice; regard; heedfulness.
To this difference it is right that advertence should be had in
regulating taxation. J. S. Mill.

ADVERTENT
Ad*vert"ent, a. Etym: [L. advertens, -entis, p. pr. of advertere. See
Advert.]

Defn: Attentive; heedful; regardful. Sir M. Hale.
 -- Ad*vert"ent*ly, adv.

ADVERTISE
Ad`ver*tise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advertised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Advertising.] Etym: [F. avertir, formerly also spelt advertir, to
warn, give notice to, L. advertere to turn to. The ending was
probably influenced by the noun advertisement. See Advert.]

Defn: To give notice to; to inform or apprise; to notify; to make
known; hence, to warn; -- often followed by of before the subject of
information; as, to advertise a man of his loss. [Archaic]
I will advertise thee what this people shall do. Num. xxiv. 14.

4. To give public notice of; to announce publicly, esp. by a printed
notice; as, to advertise goods for sale, a lost article, the sailing
day of a vessel, a political meeting.

Syn.
 -- To apprise; inform; make known; notify; announce; proclaim;
promulgate; publish.

ADVERTISEMENT
Ad*ver"tise*ment, n. Etym: [F.avertisement, formerly also spelled
advertissement, a warning, giving notice, fr. avertir.]

1. The act of informing or notifying; notification. [Archaic]
An advertisement of danger. Bp. Burnet.

2. Admonition; advice; warning. [Obs.]
Therefore give me no counsel: My griefs cry louder than
advertisement. Shak.

3. A public notice, especially a paid notice in some public print;
anything that advertises; as, a newspaper containing many
advertisement.

ADVERTISER
Ad`ver*tis"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, advertises.

ADVICE
Ad*vice", n. Etym: [OE. avis, F. avis; + OF. vis, fr. L. visum
seemed, seen; really p. p. of videre to see, so that vis meant that
which has seemed best. See Vision, and cf. Avise, Advise.]

1. An opinion recommended or offered, as worthy to be followed;
counsel.
We may give advice, but we can not give conduct. Franklin.

2. Deliberate consideration; knowledge. [Obs.]
How shall I dote on her with more advice, That thus without advice
begin to love her Shak.

3. Information or notice given; intelligence; as, late advices from
France; -- commonly in the plural.

Note: In commercial language, advice usually means information
communicated by letter; -- used chiefly in reference to drafts or
bills of exchange; as, a letter of advice. McElrath.

4. (Crim. Law)

Defn: Counseling to perform a specific illegal act. Wharton. Advice
boat, a vessel employed to carry dispatches or to reconnoiter; a
dispatch boat.
 -- To take advice. (a) To accept advice. (b) To consult with another
or others.

Syn.
 -- Counsel; suggestion; recommendation; admonition; exhortation;
information; notice.

ADVISABILITY
Ad*vis`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being advisable; advisableness.

ADVISABLE
Ad*vis"a*ble, a.

1. Proper to be advised or to be done; expedient; prudent.
Some judge it advisable for a man to account with his heart every
day. South.

2. Ready to receive advice. [R.] South.

Syn.
 -- Expedient; proper; desirable; befitting.

ADVISABLE-NESS
Ad*vis"a*ble-ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being advisable or expedient; expediency;
advisability.

ADVISABLY
Ad*vis"a*bly, adv.

Defn: With advice; wisely.

ADVISE
Ad*vise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advised; p. pr. & vb. n. Advising.]
Etym: [OE. avisen to perceive, consider, inform, F. aviser, fr. LL.
advisare. advisare; ad + visare, fr. L. videre, visum, to see. See
Advice, and cf. Avise.]

1. To give advice to; to offer an opinion, as worthy or expedient to
be followed; to counsel; to warn. "I shall no more advise thee."
Milton.

2. To give information or notice to; to inform; -- with of before the
thing communicated; as, we were advised of the risk. To advise one's
self, to bethink one's self; to take counsel with one's self; to
reflect; to consider. [Obs.]
Bid thy master well advise himself. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To counsel; admonish; apprise; acquaint.

ADVISE
Ad*vise", v. t.

1. To consider; to deliberate. [Obs.]
Advise if this be worth attempting. Milton.

2. To take counsel; to consult; -- followed by with; as, to advise
with friends.

ADVISEDLY
Ad*vis"ed*ly, adv.

1. Circumspectly; deliberately; leisurely. [Obs.] Shak.

2. With deliberate purpose; purposely; by design. "Advisedly
undertaken." Suckling.

ADVISEDNESS
Ad*vis"ed*ness n.

Defn: Deliberate consideration; prudent procedure; caution.

ADVISEMENT
Ad*vise"ment, n. Etym: [OE. avisement, F. avisement, fr. aviser. See
Advise, and cf. Avisement.]

1. Counsel; advise; information. [Archaic]
And mused awhile, waking advisement takes of what had passed in
sleep. Daniel.

2. Consideration; deliberation; consultation.
Tempering the passion with advisement slow. Spenser.

ADVISER
Ad*vis"er, n.

Defn: One who advises.

ADVISERSHIP
Ad*vis"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an adviser. [R.]

ADVISO
Ad*vi"so, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. aviso. See Advice.]

Defn: Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat.
[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ADVISORY
Ad*vi"so*ry, a.

Defn: Having power to advise; containing advice; as, an advisory
council; their opinion is merely advisory.
The General Association has a general advisory superintendence over
all the ministers and churches. Trumbull.

ADVOCACY
Ad"vo*ca*cy, n. Etym: [OF. advocatie, LL. advocatia. See Advocate.]

Defn: The act of pleading for or supporting; work of advocating;
intercession.

ADVOCATE
Ad"vo*cate, n. Etym: [OE. avocat, avocet, OF. avocat, fr. L.
advocatus, one summoned or called to another; properly the p. p. of
advocare to call to, call to one's aid; ad + vocare to call. See
Advowee, Avowee, Vocal.]

1. One who pleads the cause of another. Specifically: One who pleads
the cause of another before a tribunal or judicial court; a
counselor.

Note: In the English and American Law, advocate is the same as
"counsel," "counselor," or "barrister." In the civil and
ecclesiastical courts, the term signifies the same as "counsel" at
the common law.

2. One who defends, vindicates, or espouses any cause by argument; a
pleader; as, an advocate of free trade, an advocate of truth.

3. Christ, considered as an intercessor.
We have an Advocate with the Father. 1 John ii. 1.
Faculty of advocates (Scot.), the Scottish bar in Edinburgh.
 -- Lord advocate (Scot.), the public prosecutor of crimes, and
principal crown lawyer.
 -- Judge advocate. See under Judge.

ADVOCATE
Ad"vo*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Advocated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Advocating.] Etym: [See Advocate, n., Advoke, Avow.]

Defn: To plead in favor of; to defend by argument, before a tribunal
or the public; to support, vindicate, or recommend publicly.
To advocate the cause of thy client. Bp. Sanderson (1624).
This is the only thing distinct and sensible, that has been
advocated. Burke.
Eminent orators were engaged to advocate his cause. Mitford.

ADVOCATE
Ad"vo*cate, v. i.

Defn: To act as advocate. [Obs.] Fuller.

ADVOCATESHIP
Ad"vo*cate*ship, n.

Defn: Office or duty of an advocate.

ADVOCATION
Ad`vo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. advocatio: cf. OF. avocation. See
Advowson.]

1. The act of advocating or pleading; plea; advocacy. [Archaic]
The holy Jesus . . . sits in heaven in a perpetual advocation for us.
Jer. Taylor.

2. Advowson. [Obs.]
The donations or advocations of church livings. Sanderson.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: The process of removing a cause from an inferior court to the
supreme court. Bell.

ADVOCATORY
Ad"vo*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an advocate. [R.]

ADVOKE
Ad*voke", v. t. Etym: [L. advocare. See Advocate.]

Defn: To summon; to call. [Obs.]
Queen Katharine had privately prevailed with the pope to advoke the
cause to Rome. Fuller.

ADVOLUTION
Ad`vo*lu"tion, n. Etym: [L. advolvere, advolutum, to roll to.]

Defn: A rolling toward something. [R.]

ADVOUTRER
Ad*vou"trer, n. Etym: [OF. avoutre, avoltre, fr. L. adulter. Cf.
Adulterer.]

Defn: An adulterer. [Obs.]

ADVOUTRESS
Ad*vou"tress, n.

Defn: An adulteress. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADVOUTRY; ADVOWTRY
Ad*vou"try, Ad*vow"try, n. Etym: [OE. avoutrie, avouterie, advoutrie,
OF. avoutrie, avulterie, fr. L. adulterium. Cf. Adultery.]

Defn: Adultery. [Obs.] Bacon.

ADVOWEE
Ad*vow*ee", n. Etym: [OE. avowe, F. avoué, fr. L. advocatus. See
Advocate, Avowee, Avoyer.]

Defn: One who has an advowson. Cowell.

ADVOWSON
Ad*vow"son, n. Etym: [OE. avoweisoun, OF. avoëson, fr. L. advocatio.
Cf. Advocation.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: The right of presenting to a vacant benefice or living in the
church. [Originally, the relation of a patron (advocatus) or
protector of a benefice, and thus privileged to nominate or present
to it.]

Note: The benefices of the Church of England are in every case
subjects of presentation. They are nearly 12,000 in number; the
advowson of more than half of them belongs to private persons, and of
the remainder to the crown, bishops, deans and chapters,
universities, and colleges. Amer. Cyc.

ADVOYER
Ad*voy"er, n.

Defn: See Avoyer. [Obs.]

ADWARD
Ad*ward", n.

Defn: Award. [Obs.] Spenser.

ADYNAMIA
Ad`y*na"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL. adynamia, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Considerable debility of the vital powers, as in typhoid fever.
Dunglison.

ADYNAMIC
Ad`y*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. adynamique. See Adynamy.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, debility of the vital
powers; weak.

2. (Physics)

Defn: Characterized by the absence of power or force. Adynamic
fevers, malignant or putrid fevers attended with great muscular
debility.

ADYNAMY
A*dyn"a*my, n.

Defn: Adynamia. [R.] Morin.

ADYTUM
Ad"y*tum, n. Adyta. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whence
oracles were given. Hence: A private chamber; a sanctum.

ADZ
Adz, v. t.

Defn: To cut with an adz. [R.] Carlyle.

ADZ; ADZE
Adz, Adze, n. Etym: [OE. adese, adis, adse, AS. adesa, adese, ax,
hatchet.]

Defn: A carpenter's or cooper's tool, formed with a thin arching
blade set at right angles to the handle. It is used for chipping or
slicing away the surface of wood.

AE
Æ or Ae.

Defn: A diphthong in the Latin language; used also by the Saxon
writers. It answers to the Gr. æ was generally replaced by a, the
long e or ee. In derivatives from Latin words with ae, it is mostly
superseded by e. For most words found with this initial combination,
the reader will therefore search under the letter E.

AECIDIUM
Æ*cid"i*um, n.; pl. Æcidia. Etym: [NL., dim. of Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A form of fruit in the cycle of development of the Rusts or
Brands, an order of fungi, formerly considered independent plants.

AEDILE
Æ"dile, n. Etym: [L. aedilis, fr. aedes temple, public building. Cf.
Edify.]

Defn: A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence of
public buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer.

AEDILESHIP
Æ"dile*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an ædile. T. Arnold.

AEGEAN
Æ*ge"an, a. Etym: [L. Aegeus; Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea,
east of Greece. See Archipelago.

AEGICRANIA
Æ`gi*cra"ni*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: Sculptured ornaments, used in classical architecture,
representing rams' heads or skulls.

AEGILOPS
Æg"i*lops, n. Etym: [L. aegilopis, Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: An ulcer or fistula in the inner corner of the eye.

2. (Bot.)
(a) The great wild-oat grass or other cornfield weed. Crabb.
(b) A genus of plants, called also hardgrass.

AEGIS
Æ"gis, n. Etym: [L. aegis, fr. Gr.

Defn: A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to the
shield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.: A shield; a
protection.

AEGOPHONY
Æ*goph"o*ny, n.

Defn: Same as Egophony.

AEGROTAT
Æ*gro"tat, n. Etym: [L., he is sick.] (Camb. Univ.)

Defn: A medical certificate that a student is ill.

AENEID
Æ*ne"id, n. Etym: [L. Aeneis, Aeneidis, or -dos: cf. F. .]

Defn: The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is Æneas.

AENEOUS
A*ë"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. aëneus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Colored like bronze.

AEOLIAN
Æ*o"li*an, a. Etym: [L. Aeolius, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to Æolia or Æolis, in Asia Minor, colonized by
the Greeks, or to its inhabitants; æolic; as, the Æolian dialect.

2. Pertaining to Æolus, the mythic god of the winds; pertaining to,
or produced by, the wind; aërial.
Viewless forms the æolian organ play. Campbell.
Æolian attachment, a contrivance often attached to a pianoforte,
which prolongs the vibrations, increases the

volume of sound, etc., by forcing a stream of air upon the strings.
Moore.
 -- Æolian harp, Æolian lyre, a musical instrument consisting of a
box, on or in which are stretched strings, on which the wind acts to
produce the notes; -- usually placed at an open window. Moore.
 -- Æolian mode (Mus.), one of the ancient Greek and early
ecclesiastical modes.

AEOLIC
Æ*ol"ic, a. Etym: [L. Aeolicus; Gr.

Defn: Æolian, 1; as, the Æolic dialect; the Æolic mode.

AEOLIPILE; AEOLIPYLE
Æ*ol"i*pile, Æ*ol"i*pyle, n. Etym: [L. aeolipilae; Aeolus god of the
winds + pila a ball, or Gr. i. e., doorway of Æolus); cf. F.
éolipyle.]

Defn: An apparatus consisting chiefly of a closed vessel (as a globe
or cylinder) with one or more projecting bent tubes, through which
steam is made to pass from the vessel, causing it to revolve.
[Written also eolipile.]

Note: Such an apparatus was first described by Hero of Alexandria
about 200 years b. c. It has often been called the first steam
engine.

AEOLOTROPIC
Æ`o*lo*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Exhibiting differences of quality or property in different
directions; not isotropic. Sir W. Thomson.

AEOLOTROPY
Æ`o*lot"ro*py, n. (Physics)

Defn: Difference of quality or property in different directions.

AEOLUS
Æ"o*lus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gr. & Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The god of the winds.

AEON
Æ"on, n.

Defn: A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of the
Deity. See Eon.

AEONIAN
Æ*o"ni*an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Eternal; everlasting. "Æonian hills." Tennyson.

AEPYORNIS
Æ`py*or"nis, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A gigantic bird found fossil in Madagascar.

AERATE
A"ër*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. A; p. pr. & vb. n. A.] Etym: [Cf. F.
aérer. See Air,v. t.]

1. To combine or charge with gas; usually with carbonic acid gas,
formerly called fixed air.
His sparkling sallies bubbled up as from aërated natural fountains.
Carlyle.

2. To supply or impregnate with common air; as, to aërate soil; to
aërate water.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: To expose to the chemical action of air; to oxygenate (the
blood) by respiration; to arterialize. Aërated bread, bread raised by
charging dough with carbonic acid gas, instead of generating the gas
in the dough by fermentation.

AERATION
A`ër*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aération.]

1. Exposure to the free action of the air; airing; as, aëration of
soil, of spawn, etc.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: A change produced in the blood by exposure to the air in
respiration; oxygenation of the blood in respiration;
arterialization.

3. The act or preparation of charging with carbonic acid gas or with
oxygen.

AERATOR
A"ër*a`tor, n.

Defn: That which supplies with air; esp. an apparatus used for
charging mineral waters with gas and in making soda water.

AERENCHYM; AERENCHYMA
{ A"ër*en`chym,  A`ër*en"chy*ma }, n. [NL. aërenchyma. See Aëro-;
Enchyma.] (Bot.)

Defn: A secondary respiratory tissue or modified periderm, found in
many aquatic plants and distinguished by the large intercellular
spaces.

AERIAL
A*ë"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. aërius. See Air.]

1. Of or pertaining to the air, or atmosphere; inhabiting or
frequenting the air; produced by or found in the air; performed in
the air; as, aërial regions or currents. "Aërial spirits." Milton.
"Aërial voyages." Darwin.

2. Consisting of air; resembling, or partaking of the nature of air.
Hence: Unsubstantial; unreal.

3. Rising aloft in air; high; lofty; as, aërial spires.

4. Growing, forming, or existing in the air, as opposed to growing or
existing in earth or water, or underground; as, aërial rootlets,
aërial plants. Gray.

5. Light as air; ethereal. Aërial acid, carbonic acid. [Obs.] Ure.
 -- Aërial perspective. See Perspective.

AERIALITY
A*ë`ri*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being aërial; [R.] De Quincey.

AERIALLY
A*ë"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Like, or from, the air; in an aërial manner. "A murmur heard
aërially." Tennyson.

AERIAL RAILWAY
A*ë`ri*al rail"way`. (a) A stretched wire or rope elevated above the
ground and forming a way along which a trolley may travel, for
conveying a load suspended from the trolley.
 (b) An elevated cableway.

AERIAL SICKNESS
A*ë"ri*al sick"ness.

Defn: A sickness felt by aëronauts due to high speed of flights and
rapidity in changing altitudes, combining some symptoms of mountain
sickness and some of seasickness.

AERIE
Ae"rie, n. Etym: [OE. aire, eire, air, nest, also origin, descent,
OF. aire, LL. area, aera, nest of a bird of prey, perh. fr. L. area
an open space (for birds of prey like to build their nests on flat
and open spaces on the top of high rocks). Cf. Area.]

Defn: The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also a
brood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.: A human residence or
resting place perched like an eagle's nest.

AERIFEROUS
A`ër*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. aër air + -ferous: cf. F. aérifère.]

Defn: Conveying or containing air; air-bearing; as, the windpipe is
an aëriferous tube.

AERIFICATION
A`ër*i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aérification. See A.]

1. The act of combining air with another substance, or the state of
being filled with air.

2. The act of becoming aërified, or of changing from a solid or
liquid form into an aëriform state; the state of being aëriform.

AERIFORM
A"ër*i*form, a. Etym: [L. aër air + -form: cf. F. aériforme.]

Defn: Having the form or nature of air, or of an elastic fluid;
gaseous. Hence fig.: Unreal.

AERIFY
A"ër*i*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. aër air + -fly.]

1. To infuse air into; to combine air with.

2. To change into an aëriform state.

AERO-
A"ër*o-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The combining form of the Greek word meaning air.

AEROBIC
A`ër*o"bic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Growing or thriving only in the presence of oxygen; also,
pertaining to, or induced by, aërobies; as, aërobic fermentation. --
A`ër*o"bic*al*ly (#), adv.

AEROBIES
A"ër*o*bies, n. pl. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Microörganisms which live in contact with the air and need
oxygen for their growth; as the microbacteria which form on the
surface of putrefactive fluids.

AEROBIOTIC
A`ër*o*bi*ot"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Related to, or of the nature of, aërobies; as, aërobiotic
plants, which live only when supplied with free oxygen.

AEROBOAT
A"ër*o*boat`, n. [Aëro- + boat.]

Defn: A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat.

AEROBUS
A"ër*o*bus`, n.  [Aëro-+ bus.]

Defn: An aëroplane or airship designed to carry passengers.

AEROCLUB
A"ër*o*club`, n. [Aëro- + club.]

Defn: A club or association of persons interested in aëronautics.

AEROCURVE
A"ër*o*curve`, n. [Aëro- + curve.] (Aëronautics)

Defn: A modification of the aëroplane, having curved surfaces, the
advantages of which were first demonstrated by Lilienthal.

AEROCYST
A"ër*o*cyst, n. Etym: [Aëro- + cyst.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the air cells of algals.

AEROCYST
A"ër*o*cyst, n. [Aëro-+ cyst.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the air cells of algals.

AERODONETICS
A`ë*ro*do*net"ics, n. [Aëro- + Gr.  shaken,  to shake.] (Aëronautics)

Defn: The science of gliding and soaring flight.

AERODROME
A"ë*ro*drome`, n. [Aëro- + Gr.  a running.] (Aëronautics) (a) A shed
for housing an airship or aëroplane.
 (b) A ground or field, esp. one equipped with housing and other
facilities, used for flying purposes. -- A`ër*o*drom"ic (#), a.

AERODYNAMIC
A"ër*o*dy*nam"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the force of air in motion.

AERODYNAMICS
A`ër*o*dy*nam"ics, n. Etym: [Aëro- + dynamics: cf. F. aérodynamique.]

Defn: The science which treats of the air and other gaseous bodies
under the action of force, and of their mechanical effects.

AEROFOIL
A"ër*o*foil`, n. [Aëro- + foil.]

Defn: A plane or arched surface for sustaining bodies by its movement
through the air; a spread wing, as of a bird.

AEROGNOSY
A`ër*og"no*sy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. aérognosie.]

Defn: The science which treats of the properties of the air, and of
the part it plays in nature. Craig.

AEROGRAPHER
A`ër*og"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One versed in aëography: an aërologist.

AEROGRAPHIC; AEROGRAPHICAL
A`ër*o*graph"ic, A`ër*o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to aërography; aërological.

AEROGRAPHY
A`ër*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -graphy: cf. F. aérographie.]

Defn: A description of the air or atmosphere; aërology.

AEROGUN
A"ër*o*gun`, n.  [Aëro-+ gun.]

Defn: A cannon capable of being trained at very high angles for use
against aircraft.

AEROHYDRODYNAMIC
A`ër*o*hy`dro*dy*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Aëro- + hydrodynamic.]

Defn: Acting by the force of air and water; as, an aërohydrodynamic
wheel.

AEROLITE
A"ër*o*lite, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -lite: cf. F. aérolithe.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A stone, or metallic mass, which has fallen to the earth from
distant space; a meteorite; a meteoric stone.

Note: Some writers limit the word to stony meteorites.

AEROLITH
A"ër*o*lith, n.

Defn: Same as A.

AEROLITHOLOGY
A`ër*o*li*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + lithology.]

Defn: The science of aërolites.

AEROLITIC
A`ër*o*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to aërolites; meteoric; as, aërolitic iron.
Booth.

AEROLOGIC; AEROLOGICAL
A`ër*o*log"ic, A`ër*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to aërology.

AEROLOGIST
A`ër*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in aërology.

AEROLOGY
A`ër*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -logy: cf. F. aérologie.]

Defn: That department of physics which treats of the atmosphere.

AEROMANCY
A"ër*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -mancy: cf. F. aéromancie.]

Defn: Divination from the state of the air or from atmospheric
substances; also, forecasting changes in the weather.

AEROMECHANIC; AEROMECHANICAL
A`ër*o*me*chan"ic, A`ër*o*me*chan"ical, a.

Defn: Of or pert. to aëromechanics.

AEROMECHANIC
A`ër*o*me*chan"ic, n.

Defn: A mechanic or mechanician expert in the art and practice of
aëronautics.

AEROMECHANICS
A`ër*o*me*chan"ics, n.

Defn: The science of equilibrium and motion of air or an aëriform
fluid, including aërodynamics and aërostatics.

AEROMETER
A`ër*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -meter: cf. F. éromètre.]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the weight or density of air and
gases.

AEROMETRIC
A`ër*o*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to aërometry; as, aërometric investigations.

AEROMETRY
A`ër*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Aëro- + -metry: cf. F. érométrie.]

Defn: The science of measuring the air, including the doctrine of its
pressure, elasticity, rarefaction, and condensation; pneumatics.

AERONAT
A"ër*o*nat`, n. [F. aéronat. See Aëro-; Natation.]

Defn: A dirigible balloon.

AERONAUT
A"ër*o*naut, n. Etym: [F. aéronaute, fr. Gr. Nautical.]

Defn: An aërial navigator; a balloonist.

AERONAUTIC; AERONAUTICAL
A`ër*o*naut"ic, A`ër*o*naut"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aéronauitique.]

Defn: Pertaining to aëronautics, or aërial sailing.

AERONAUTICS
A`ër*o*naut"ics, n.

Defn: The science or art of ascending and sailing in the air, as by
means of a balloon; aërial navigation; ballooning.

AERONEF
A"ër*o*nef`, n. [F. aéronef.]

Defn: A power-driven, heavier-than-air flying machine.

AEROPHOBIA; AEROPHOBY
A`ër*o*pho"bi*a, A`ër*oph"o*by, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. aérophobie.]
(Med.)

Defn: Dread of a current of air.

AEROPHONE
A"ër*o*phone`, n. [Aëro- + Gr.  voice.] (a) A form of combined
speaking and ear trumpet.
 (b) An instrument, proposed by Edison, for greatly intensifying
speech. It consists of a phonograph diaphragm so arranged that its
action opens and closes valves, producing synchronous air blasts
sufficient to operate a larger diaphragm with greater amplitude of
vibration.

AEROPHYTE
A"ër*o*phyte (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. aérophyte.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant growing entirely in the air, and receiving its
nourishment from it; an air plant or epiphyte.

AEROPLANE
A"ër*o*plane` (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + plane.]

Defn: A flying machine, or a small plane for experiments on flying,
which floats in the air only when propelled through it.

AEROPLANIST
A"ër*o*plan`ist, n.

Defn: One who flies in an aëroplane.

AEROSCOPE
A"ër*o*scope (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: An apparatus designed for collecting spores, germs, bacteria,
etc., suspended in the air.

AEROSCOPY
A`ër*os"co*py (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr.

Defn: The observation of the state and variations of the atmosphere.

AEROSE
Æ*rose" (, a. Etym: [L. aerosus, fr. aes, aeris, brass, copper.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy. [R.]

AEROSIDERITE
A`ër*o*sid"er*ite (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + siderite.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A mass of meteoric iron.

AEROSPHERE
A"ër*o*sphere (, n. Etym: [Aëro- + sphere: cf. F. aérosphère.]

Defn: The atmosphere. [R.]

AEROSTAT
A"ër*o*stat (, n. Etym: [F. aérostat, fr. Gr. Statics.]

1. A balloon.

2. A balloonist; an aëronaut.

AEROSTATIC; AEROSTATICAL
A`ër*o*stat"ic (, A`ër*o*stat"ic*al (, a. Etym: [Aëro- + Gr.
aérostatique. See Statical, Statics.]

1. Of or pertaining to aërostatics; pneumatic.

2. Aëronautic; as, an aërostatic voyage.

AEROSTATICS
A`ër*o*stat"ics (, n.

Defn: The science that treats of the equilibrium of elastic fluids,
or that of bodies sustained in them. Hence it includes aëronautics.

AEROSTATION
A`ër*os*ta"tion (, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aérostation the art of using
aërostats.]

1. Aërial navigation; the art of raising and guiding balloons in the
air.

2. The science of weighing air; aërostatics. [Obs.]

AEROTAXIS
A"ër*o*tax`is, n. [NL. See Aëro-; Taxis.] (Bacteriology)

Defn: The positive or negative stimulus exerted by oxygen on aërobic
and anaërobic bacteria. -- A`ër*o*tac"tic (#), a.

AEROTHERAPENTICS
A`ër*o*ther`a*pen"tics, n. [Aëro- + therapeutics.] (Med.)

Defn: Treatment of disease by the use of air or other gases.

AEROYACHT
A"ër*o*yacht`, n. [Aëro- + yacht.]

Defn: A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat.

AERUGINOUS
Æ*ru"gi*nous (, a. Etym: [L. aeruginosus, fr. aerugo rust of copper,
fr. aes copper: cf. F. érugineux.]

Defn: Of the nature or color of verdigris, or the rust of copper.

AERUGO
Æ*ru"go (, n. Etym: [L. aes brass, copper.]

Defn: The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris.

AERY
Ae"ry (, n.

Defn: An aerie.

AERY
A"ër*y (, a. Etym: [See Air.]

Defn: Aërial; ethereal; incorporeal; visionary. [Poetic] M. Arnold.

AESCULAPIAN
Æs`cu*la"pi*an (, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Æsculapius or to the healing art; medical;
medicinal.

AESCULAPIUS
Æs`cu*la"pi*us (, n. Etym: [L. Aesculapius, Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: The god of medicine. Hence, a physician.

AESCULIN
Æs"cu*lin (, n.

Defn: Same as Esculin.

AESIR
Æ"sir, n. pl. [Icel., pl. of ass god.]

Defn: In the old Norse mythology, the gods Odin, Thor, Loki, Balder,
Frigg, and the others. Their home was called Asgard.

AESOPIAN; ESOPIAN
Æ*so"pi*an, E*so"pi*an (, a. Etym: [L. Aesopius, from Gr. (.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Æsop, or in his manner.

AESOPIC; ESOPIC
Æ*sop"ic, E*sop"ic (, a. Etym: [L. Aesopicus, Gr.

Defn: Same as Æsopian.

AESTHESIA
Æs*the"si*a (, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Perception by the senses; feeling; -- the opposite of
anæsthesia.

AESTHESIOMETER; ESTHESIOMETER
Æs*the`si*om"e*ter, Es*the`si*om"e*ter (, n. Etym: [Gr. Æsthesia) + -
meter.]

Defn: An instrument to measure the degree of sensation, by
determining at how short a distance two impressions upon the skin can
be distinguished, and thus to determine whether the condition of
tactile sensibility is normal or altered.

AESTHESIS
Æs*the""sis (, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Sensuous perception. [R.] Ruskin.

AESTHESODIC
Æs`the*sod"ic (, a. Etym: [Gr. esthésodique.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Conveying sensory or afferent impulses; -- said of nerves.

AESTHETE
Æs"thete (, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who makes much or overmuch of æsthetics. [Recent]

AESTHETIC; AESTHETICAL
Æs*thet"ic (, Æs*thet"ic*al (, a.

Defn: Of or Pertaining to æsthetics; versed in æsthetics; as,
æsthetic studies, emotions, ideas, persons, etc.
 -- Æs*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.

AESTHETICAN
Æs`the*ti"can, n.

Defn: One versed in æsthetics.

AESTHETICISM
Æs*thet"i*cism, n.

Defn: The doctrine of æsthetics; æsthetic principles; devotion to the
beautiful in nature and art. Lowell.

AESTHETICS; ESTHETICS
Æs*thet"ics, Es*thet"ics (, n. Etym: [Gr. ästhetik, F. esthétique.]

Defn: The theory or philosophy of taste; the science of the beautiful
in nature and art; esp. that which treats of the expression and
embodiment of beauty by art.

AESTHO-PHYSIOLOGY
Æs`tho-phys`i*ol"o*gy(#), n. Etym: [Gr. physiology.]

Defn: The science of sensation in relation to nervous action. H.
Spenser.

AESTIVAL
Æs"ti*val, a. Etym: [L. aestivalis, aestivus, fr. aestas summer.]

Defn: Of or belonging to the summer; as, æstival diseases. [Spelt
also estival.]

AESTIVATE
Æs"ti*vate, v. i. Etym: [L. aestivare, aestivatum.]

1. To spend the summer.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: To pass the summer in a state of torpor. [Spelt also estivate.]

AESTIVATION
Æs`ti*va"tion, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The state of torpidity induced by the heat and dryness of
summer, as in certain snails; -- opposed to hibernation.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The arrangement of the petals in a flower bud, as to folding,
overlapping, etc.; prefloration. Gray. [Spelt also estivation.]

AESTUARY
Æs"tu*a*ry, n. & a.

Defn: See Estuary.

AESTUOUS
Æs"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. aestuosus, fr. aestus fire, glow.]

Defn: Glowing; agitated, as with heat.

AETHEOGAMOUS
A*ë`the*og"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Propagated in an unusual way; cryptogamous.

AETHER
Æ"ther, n.

Defn: See Ether.

AETHIOPS MINERAL
Æ"thi*ops min"er*al. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Ethiops mineral. [Obs.]

AETHOGEN
Æth"o*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of nitrogen and boro

AETHRIOSCOPE
Æ"thri*o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An instrument consisting in part of a differential thermometer.
It is used for measuring changes of temperature produced by different
conditions of the sky, as when clear or clouded.

AETIOLOGICAL
Æ`ti*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to ætiology; assigning a cause.
 -- Æ`ti*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

AETIOLOGY
Æ`ti*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. aetologia, Gr. étiologie.]

1. The science, doctrine, or demonstration of causes; esp., the
investigation of the causes of any disease; the science of the origin
and development of things.

2. The assignment of a cause.

AETITES
A`ë*ti"tes, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: See Eaglestone.

AFAR
A*far", adv. Etym: [Pref. a-.(for on or of) + far.]

Defn: At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used with
from preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I saw
him afar off.
The steep where Fame's proud temple shines afar. Beattie.

AFEARD
A*feard", p. a. Etym: [OE. afered, AS. af, p. p. of af to frighten;
a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning out) + fran to frighten.
See Fear.]

Defn: Afraid. [Obs.]
Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises. Shak.

AFER
A"fer, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The southwest wind. Milton.

AFFABILITY
Af`fa*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. affabilitas: cf. F. affabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being affable; readiness to converse;
courteousness in receiving others and in conversation; complaisant
behavior.
Affability is of a wonderful efficacy or power in procuring love.
Elyot

AFFABLE
Af"fa*ble, a. Etym: [F. affable, L. affabilis, fr. affari to speak
to; ad + fari to speak. See Fable.]

1. Easy to be spoken to or addressed; receiving others kindly and
conversing with them in a free and friendly manner; courteous;
sociable.
An affable and courteous gentleman. Shak.
His manners polite and affable. Macaulay.

2. Gracious; mild; benign.
A serene and affable countenance. Tatler.

Syn.
 -- Courteous; civil; complaisant; accessible; mild; benign;
condescending.

AFFABLENESS
Af"fa*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Affability.

AFFABLY
Af"fa*bly, adv.

Defn: In an affable manner; courteously.

AFFABROUS
Af"fa*brous, a. Etym: [L. affaber workmanlike; ad + faber.]

Defn: Executed in a workmanlike manner; ingeniously made. [R.]
Bailey.

AFFAIR
Af*fair", n. Etym: [OE. afere, affere, OF. afaire, F. affaire, fr. a
faire to do; L.. ad + facere to do. See Fact, and cf. Ado.]

1. That which is done or is to be done; matter; concern; as, a
difficult affair to manage; business of any kind, commercial,
professional, or public; -- often in the plural. "At the head of
affairs." Junius. "A talent for affairs." Prescott.

2. Any proceeding or action which it is wished to refer to or
characterize vaguely; as, an affair of honor, i. e., a duel; an
affair of love, i. e., an intrigue.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: An action or engagement not of sufficient magnitude to be
called a battle.

4. Action; endeavor. [Obs.]
And with his best affair Obeyed the pleasure of the Sun. Chapman.

5. A material object (vaguely designated).
A certain affair of fine red cloth much worn and faded. Hawthorne.

AFFAMISH
Af*fam"ish, v. t. & i. Etym: [F. affamer, fr. L. ad + fames hunger.
See Famish.]

Defn: To afflict with, or perish from, hunger. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFAMISHMENT
Af*fam"ish*ment, n.

Defn: Starvation. Bp. Hall.

AFFATUATE
Af*fat"u*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. ad + fatuus foolish.]

Defn: To infatuate. [Obs.] Milton.

AFFEAR
Af*fear", v. t. Etym: [OE. aferen, AS. af. See Afeard.]

Defn: To frighten. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFECT
Af*fect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affected; p. pr. & vb. n. Affecting.]
Etym: [L. affectus, p. p. of afficere to affect by active agency; ad
+ facere to make: cf. F. affectere, L. affectare, freq. of afficere.
See Fact.]

1. To act upon; to produce an effect or change upon.
As might affect the earth with cold heat. Milton.
The climate affected their health and spirits. Macaulay.

2. To influence or move, as the feelings or passions; to touch.
A consideration of the rationale of our passions seems to me very
necessary for all who would affect them upon solid and pure
principles.

3. To love; to regard with affection. [Obs.]
As for Queen Katharine, he rather respected than affected, rather
honored than loved, her. Fuller.

4. To show a fondness for; to like to use or practice; to choose;
hence, to frequent habitually.
For he does neither affect company, nor is he fit for Shak.
Do not affect the society of your inferiors in rank, nor court that
of the great. Hazlitt.

5. To dispose or incline.
Men whom they thought best affected to religion and their country's
liberty. Milton.

6. To aim at; to aspire; to covet. [Obs.]
This proud man affects imperial Dryden.

7. To tend to by affinity or disposition.
The drops of every fluid affect a round figure. Newton.

8. To make a show of; to put on a pretense of; to feign; to assume;
as, to affect ignorance.
Careless she is with artful care, Affecting to seem unaffected.
Congreve.
Thou dost affect my manners. Shak.

9. To assign; to appoint. [R.]
One of the domestics was affected to his special service. Thackeray.

Syn.
 -- To influence; operate; act on; concern; move; melt; soften;
subdue; overcome; pretend; assume.

AFFECT
Af*fect", n. Etym: [L. affectus.]

Defn: Affection; inclination; passion; feeling; disposition. [Obs.]
Shak.

AFFECTATION
Af`fec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. affectatio: cf. F. affectation.]

1. An attempt to assume or exhibit what is not natural or real; false
display; artificial show. "An affectation of contempt." Macaulay.
Affectation is an awkward and forced imitation of what should be
genuine and easy, wanting the beauty that accompanies what is natural
what is natural. Locke.

2. A striving after. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

3. Fondness; affection. [Obs.] Hooker.

AFFECTATIONIST
Af`fec*ta"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who exhibits affectation. [R.] Fitzed. Hall.

AFFECTED
Af*fect"ed, p. p. & a.

1. Regarded with affection; beloved. [Obs.]
His affected Hercules. Chapman.

2. Inclined; disposed; attached.
How stand you affected his wish Shak.

3. Given to false show; assuming or pretending to posses what is not
natural or real.
He is . . . too spruce, too affected, too odd. Shak.

4. Assumed artificially; not natural.
Affected coldness and indifference. Addison.

5. (Alg.)

Defn: Made up of terms involving different powers of the unknown
quantity; adfected; as, an affected equation.

AFFECTEDLY
Af*fect"ed*ly, adv.

1. In an affected manner; hypocritically; with more show than
reality.

2. Lovingly; with tender care. [Obs.] Shak.

AFFECTEDNESS
Af*fect"ed*ness, n.

Defn: Affectation.

AFFECTER
Af*fect"er, n.

Defn: One who affects, assumes, pretends, or strives after.
"Affecters of wit." Abp. Secker.

AFFECTIBILITY
Af*fect`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being affectible. [R.]

AFFECTIBLE
Af*fect"i*ble, a.

Defn: That may be affected. [R.]
Lay aside the absolute, and, by union with the creaturely, become
affectible. Coleridge.

AFFECTING
Af*fect"ing, a.

1. Moving the emotions; fitted to excite the emotions; pathetic;
touching; as, an affecting address; an affecting sight.
The most affecting music is generally the most simple.

2. Affected; given to false show. [Obs.]
A drawling; affecting rouge. Shak.

AFFECTINGLY
Af*fect"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an affecting manner; is a manner to excite emotions.

AFFECTION
Af*fec"tion, n. Etym: [F. affection, L. affectio, fr. afficere. See
Affect.]

1. The act of affecting or acting upon; the state of being affected.

2. An attribute; a quality or property; a condition; a bodily state;
as, figure, weight, etc. , are affections of bodies. "The affections
of quantity." Boyle.
And, truly, waking dreams were, more or less, An old and strange
affection of the house. Tennyson.

3. Bent of mind; a feeling or natural impulse or natural impulse
acting upon and swaying the mind; any emotion; as, the benevolent
affections, esteem, gratitude, etc. ; the malevolent affections,
hatred, envy, etc.; inclination; disposition; propensity; tendency.
Affection is applicable to an unpleasant as well as a pleasant state
of the mind, when impressed by any object or quality. Cogan.

4. A settled good will; kind feeling; love; zealous or tender
attachment; -- often in the pl. Formerly followed by to, but now more
generally by for or towards; as, filial, social, or conjugal
affections; to have an affection for or towards children.
All his affections are set on his own country. Macaulay.

5. Prejudice; bias. [Obs.] Bp. Aylmer.

6. (Med.)

Defn: Disease; morbid symptom; malady; as, a pulmonary affection.
Dunglison.

7. The lively representation of any emotion. Wotton.

8. Affectation. [Obs.] "Spruce affection." Shak.

9. Passion; violent emotion. [Obs.]
Most wretched man, That to affections does the bridle lend. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Attachment; passion; tenderness; fondness; kindness; love; good
will. See Attachment; Disease.

AFFECTIONAL
Af*fec"tion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the affections; as, affectional impulses;
an affectional nature.

AFFECTIONATE
Af*fec"tion*ate, a. Etym: [Cf. F. affectionné.]

1. Having affection or warm regard; loving; fond; as, an affectionate
brother.

2. Kindly inclined; zealous. [Obs.] Johson.
Man, in his love God, and desire to please him, can never be too
affectionate. Sprat.

3. Proceeding from affection; indicating love; tender; as, the
affectionate care of a parent; affectionate countenance, message,
language.

4. Strongly inclined; -- with to. [Obs.] Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Tender; attached; loving; devoted; warm; fond; earnest; ardent.

AFFECTIONATED
Af*fec"tion*a`ted, a.

Defn: Disposed; inclined. [Obs.]
Affectionated to the people. Holinshed.

AFFECTIONATELY
Af*fec"tion*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: With affection; lovingly; fondly; tenderly; kindly.

AFFECTIONATENESS
Af*fec"tion*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being affectionate; fondness; affection.

AFFECTIONED
Af*fec"tioned, a.

1. Disposed. [Archaic]
Be kindly affectioned one to another. Rom. xii. 10.

2. Affected; conceited. [Obs.] Shak.

AFFECTIVE
Af*fec"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. affectif.]

1. Tending to affect; affecting. [Obs.] Burnet.

2. Pertaining to or exciting emotion; affectional; emotional. Rogers.

AFFECTIVELY
Af*fec"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an affective manner; impressively; emotionally.

AFFECTUOUS
Af*fec"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. affectuous: cf. F. affectueux. See
Affect.]

Defn: Full of passion or emotion; earnest. [Obs.] --
Af*fec"tu*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Fabyan.

AFFEER
Af*feer", v. t. Etym: [OF. aforer, afeurer, to tax, appraise, assess,
fr. L. ad + forum market, court of justice, in LL. also meaning pri.]

1. To confirm; to assure. [Obs.] "The title is affeered." Shak.

2. (Old Law)

Defn: To assess or reduce, as an arbitrary penalty or amercement, to
a certain and reasonable sum.
Amercements . . . were affeered by the judges. Blackstone.

AFFEERER; AFFEEROR
Af*feer"er, Af*feer"or, n. Etym: [OF. aforeur, LL. afforator.] (Old
Law)

Defn: One who affeers. Cowell.

AFFEERMENT
Af*feer"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aforement.] (Old Law)

Defn: The act of affeering. Blackstone.

AFFERENT
Af"fer*ent, a. Etym: [L. afferens, p. pr. of afferre; ad + ferre to
bear.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed to
efferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which convey
sensations from the external organs to the brain.

AFFETTUOSO
Af*fet`tu*o"so, adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: With feeling.

AFFIANCE
Af*fi"ance, n. Etym: [OE. afiaunce trust, confidence, OF. afiance,
fr. afier to trust, fr. LL. affidare to trust; ad + fidare to trust,
fr. L. fides faith. See Faith, and cf. Affidavit, Affy, Confidence.]

1. Plighted faith; marriage contract or promise.

2. Trust; reliance; faith; confidence.
Such feelings promptly yielded to his habitual affiance in the divine
love. Sir J. Stephen.
Lancelot, my Lancelot, thou in whom I have Most joy and most
affiance. Tennyson.

AFFIANCE
Af*fi"ance, v. t. [imp. Affianced; p. pr. Affiancing.] Etym: [Cf. OF.
afiancier, fr. afiance.]

1. To betroth; to pledge one's faith to for marriage, or solemnly
promise (one's self or another) in marriage.
To me, sad maid, he was affianced. Spenser.

2. To assure by promise. [Obs.] Pope.

AFFIANCER
Af*fi"an*cer, n.

Defn: One who makes a contract of marriage between two persons.

AFFIANT
Af*fi"ant, n. Etym: [From p. pr. of OF. afier, LL. affidare. See
Affidavit.] (Law)

Defn: One who makes an affidavit. [U. S.] Burrill.

Syn.
 -- Deponent. See Deponent.

AFFICHE
Af`fiche", n. [F., fr. afficher to affix.]

Defn: A written or printed notice to be posted, as on a wall; a
poster; a placard.

AFFIDAVIT
Af`fi*da"vit, n. Etym: [LL. affidavit he has made oath, perfect tense
of affidare. See Affiance, Affy.] (Law)

Defn: A sworn statement in writing; a declaration in writing, signed
and made upon oath before an authorized magistrate. Bouvier. Burrill.

Note: It is always made ex parte, and without cross-examination, and
in this differs from a deposition. It is also applied to written
statements made on affirmation.

Syn.
 -- Deposition. See Deposition.

AFFILE
Af*file", v. t. Etym: [OF. afiler, F. affiler, to sharpen; a (L. ad)
+ fil thread, edge.]

Defn: To polish. [Obs.]

AFFILIABLE
Af*fil"i*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being affiliated to or on, or connected with in
origin.

AFFILIATE
Af*fil"i*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affiliated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Affiliating.] Etym: [LL. adfiliare, affiliare, to adopt as son; ad +
filius son: cf. F. affilier.]

1. To adopt; to receive into a family as a son; hence, to bring or
receive into close connection; to ally.
Is the soul affiliated to God, or is it estranged and in rebellion I.
Taylor.

2. To fix the paternity of; -- said of an illegitimate child; as, to
affiliate the child to (or on or upon) one man rather than another.

3. To connect in the way of descent; to trace origin to.
How do these facts tend to affiliate the faculty of hearing upon the
aboriginal vegetative processes H. Spencer.

4. To attach (to) or unite (with); to receive into a society as a
member, and initiate into its mysteries, plans, etc.; -- followed by
to or with. Affiliated societies, societies connected with a central
society, or with each other.

AFFILIATE
Af*fil"i*ate, v. i.

Defn: To connect or associate one's self; -- followed by with; as,
they affiliate with no party.

AFFILIATION
Af*fil`i*a"tion, n. Etym: [F. affiliation, LL. affiliatio.]

1. Adoption; association or reception as a member in or of the same
family or society.

2. (Law)

Defn: The establishment or ascertaining of parentage; the assignment
of a child, as a bastard, to its father; filiation.

3. Connection in the way of descent. H. Spencer.

AFFINAL
Af*fi"nal, a. Etym: [L. affinis.]

Defn: Related by marriage; from the same source.

AFFINE
Af*fine", v. t. Etym: [F. affiner to refine; (L. ad) + fin fine. See
Fine.]

Defn: To refine. [Obs.] Holland.

AFFINED
Af*fined", a. Etym: [OF. afiné related, p. p., fr. LL. affinare to
join, fr. L. affinis neighboring, related to; ad + finis boundary,
limit.]

Defn: Joined in affinity or by any tie. [Obs.] "All affined and kin."
Shak.

AFFINITATIVE
Af*fin"i*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Of the nature of affinity.
 -- Af*fin"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.

AFFINITIVE
Af*fin"i*tive, a.

Defn: Closely connected, as by affinity.

AFFINITY
Af*fin"i*ty, n.; pl. Affinities(#). Etym: [OF. afinité, F. affinité,
L. affinites, fr. affinis. See Affined.]

1. Relationship by marriage (as between a husband and his wife's
blood relations, or between a wife and her husband's blood
relations); -- in contradistinction to consanguinity, or relationship
by blood; -- followed by with, to, or between.
Solomon made affinity with Pharaoh. 1 Kings iii. 1.

2. Kinship generally; close agreement; relation; conformity;
resemblance; connection; as, the affinity of sounds, of colors, or of
languages.
There is a close affinity between imposture and credulity. Sir G. C.
Lewis.

2. Companionship; acquaintance. [Obs.]
About forty years past, I began a happy affinity with William
Cranmer. Burton.

4. (Chem.)

Defn: That attraction which takes place, at an insensible distance,
between the heterogeneous particles of bodies, and unites them to
form chemical compounds; chemism; chemical or elective affinity or
attraction.

5. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A relation between species or highe

6. (Spiritualism)

Defn: A superior spiritual relationship or attraction held to exist
sometimes between persons, esp. persons of the opposite sex; also,
the man or woman who exerts such psychical or spiritual attraction.

AFFIRM
Af*firm", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affirmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Affirming.]
Etym: [OE. affermen, OF. afermer, F. affirmer, affermir, fr. L.
affirmare; ad + firmare to make firm, firmus firm. See Firm.]

1. To make firm; to confirm, or ratify; esp. (Law),

Defn: to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, brought
before an appelate court for review.

2. To assert positively; to tell with confidence; to aver; to
maintain as true; -- opposed to deny.
Jesus, . . . whom Paul affirmed to be alive. Acts xxv. 19.

3. (Law)

Defn: To declare, as a fact, solemnly, under judicial sanction. See
Affirmation, 4.

Syn.
 -- To assert; aver; declare; asseverate; assure; pronounce; protest;
avouch; confirm; establish; ratify.
 -- To Affirm, Asseverate, Aver, Protest. We affirm when we declare a
thing as a fact or a proposition. We asseverate it in a peculiarly
earnest manner, or with increased positiveness as what can not be
disputed. We aver it, or formally declare it to be true, when we have
positive knowledge of it. We protest in a more public manner and with
the energy of perfect sincerity. People asseverate in order to
produce a conviction of their veracity; they aver when they are
peculiarly desirous to be believed; they protest when they wish to
free themselves from imputations, or to produce a conviction of their
innocence.

AFFIRM
Af*firm", v. i.

1. To declare or assert positively.
Not that I so affirm, though so it seem To thee, who hast thy
dwelling here on earth. Milton.

2. (Law)

Defn: To make a solemn declaration, before an authorized magistrate
or tribunal, under the penalties of perjury; to testify by
affirmation.

AFFIRMABLE
Af*firm"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being affirmed, asserted, or declared; -- followed
by of; as, an attribute affirmable of every just man.

AFFIRMANCE
Af*firm"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. afermance.]

1. Confirmation; ratification; confirmation of a voidable act.
This statute . . . in affirmance of the common law. Bacon.

2. A strong declaration; affirmation. Cowper.

AFFIRMANT
Af*firm"ant, n. Etym: [L. affirmans, -antis, p. pr. See Affirm.]

1. One who affirms or asserts.

2. (Law)

Defn: One who affirms of taking an oath.

AFFIRMATION
Af`fir*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. affirmatio: cf. F. affirmation.]

1. Confirmation of anything established; ratification; as, the
affirmation of a law. Hooker.

2. The act of affirming or asserting as true; assertion; -- opposed
to negation or denial.

3. That which is asserted; an assertion; a positive as, an
affirmation, by the vender, of title to property sold, or of its
quality.

4. (Law)

Defn: A solemn declaration made under the penalties of perjury, by
persons who conscientiously decline taking an oath, which declaration
is in law equivalent to an oath. Bouvier.

AFFIRMATIVE
Af*firm"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. affirmativus: cf. F. affirmatif.]

1. Confirmative; ratifying; as, an act affirmative of common law.

2. That affirms; asserting that the fact is so; declaratory of what
exists; answering "yes" to a question; -- opposed to negative; as, an
affirmative answer; an affirmative vote.

3. Positive; dogmatic. [Obs.] J. Taylor.
Lysicles was a little by the affirmative air of Crito. Berkeley.

4. (logic)

Defn: Expressing the agreement of the two terms of a proposition.

5. (Alg.)

Defn: Positive; -- a term applied to quantities which are to be
added, and opposed to negative, or such as are to be subtracted.

AFFIRMATIVE
Af*firm"a*tive, n.

1. That which affirms as opposed to that which denies; an affirmative
proposition; that side of question which affirms or maintains the
proposition stated; -- opposed to Ant: negative; as, there were forty
votes in the affirmative, and ten in the negative.
Whether there are such beings or not, 't is sufficient for my purpose
that many have believed the affirmative. Dryden.

2. A word or phrase expressing affirmation or assent; as, yes, that
is so, etc.

AFFIRMATIVELY
Af*firm"a*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an affirmative manner; on the affirmative side of a
question; in the affirmative; -- opposed to negatively.

AFFIRMATORY
Af*firm"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Giving affirmation; assertive; affirmative. Massey.

AFFIRMER
Af*firm"er, n.

Defn: One who affirms.

AFFIX
Af*fix", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affixed; p. pr. & vb. n. Affixing.]
Etym: [LL. affixare, L. affixus, p. p. of affigere to fasten to; ad +
figere to fasten: cf. OE. affichen, F. afficher, ultimately fr. L.
affigere. See Fix.]

1. To subjoin, annex, or add at the close or end; to append to; to
fix to any part of; as, to affix a syllable to a word; to affix a
seal to an instrument; to affix one's name to a writing.

2. To fix or fasten in any way; to attach physically.
Should they [caterpillars] affix them to the leaves of a plant
improper for their food. Ray.

3. To attach, unite, or connect with; as, names affixed to ideas, or
ideas affixed to things; to affix a stigma to a person; to affix
ridicule or blame to any one.

4. To fix or fasten figuratively; -- with on or upon; as, eyes
affixed upon the ground. [Obs.] Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To attach; subjoin; connect; annex; unite.

AFFIX
Af"fix, n.; pl. Affixes. Etym: [L. affixus, p. p. of affigere: cf. F.
affixe.]

Defn: That which is affixed; an appendage; esp. one or more letters
or syllables added at the end of a word; a suffix; a postfix.

AFFIXION
Af*fix"ion, n. Etym: [L. affixio, fr. affigere.]

Defn: Affixture. [Obs.] T. Adams.

AFFIXTURE
Af*fix"ture, n.

Defn: The act of affixing, or the state of being affixed; attachment.

AFFLATION
Af*fla"tion, n. Etym: [L. afflatus, p. p. of afflare to blow or
breathe on; ad + flare to blow.]

Defn: A blowing or breathing on; inspiration.

AFFLATUS
Af*fla"tus, n. Etym: [L., fr. afflare. See Afflation.]

1. A breath or blast of wind.

2. A divine impartation of knowledge; supernatural impulse;
inspiration.
A poet writing against his genius will be like a prophet without his
afflatus. Spence.

AFFLICT
Af*flict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Afflicted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Afflicting.] Etym: [L. afflictus, p. p. of affigere to cast down,
deject; ad + fligere to strike: cf. OF. aflit, afflict, p. p. Cf.
Flagellate.]

1. To strike or cast down; to overthrow. [Obs.] "Reassembling our
afflicted powers." Milton.

2. To inflict some great injury or hurt upon, causing continued pain
or mental distress; to trouble grievously; to torment.
They did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their
burdens. Exod. i. 11.
That which was the worst now least afflicts me. Milton.

3. To make low or humble. [Obs.] Spenser.
Men are apt to prefer a prosperous error before an afflicted truth.
Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To trouble; grieve; pain; distress; harass; torment; wound; hurt.

AFFLICT
Af*flict", p. p. & a. Etym: [L. afflictus, p. p.]

Defn: Afflicted. [Obs.] Becon.

AFFLICTEDNESS
Af*flict"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being afflicted; affliction. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

AFFLICTER
Af*flict"er, n.

Defn: One who afflicts.

AFFLICTING
Af*flict"ing, a.

Defn: Grievously painful; distressing; afflictive; as, an afflicting
event.
 -- Af*flict"ing*ly, adv.

AFFLICTION
Af*flic"tion, n. Etym: [F. affliction, L. afflictio, fr. affligere.]

1. The cause of continued pain of body or mind, as sickness, losses,
etc.; an instance of grievous distress; a pain or grief.
To repay that money will be a biting affliction. Shak.

2. The state of being afflicted; a state of pain, distress, or grief.
Some virtues are seen only in affliction. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Calamity; sorrow; distress; grief; pain; adversity; misery;
wretchedness; misfortune; trouble; hardship.
 -- Affliction, Sorrow, Grief, Distress. Affliction and sorrow are
terms of wide and general application; grief and distress have
reference to particular cases. Affliction is the stronger term. The
suffering lies deeper in the soul, and usually arises from some
powerful cause, such as the loss of what is most dear -- friends,
health, etc. We do not speak of mere sickness or pain as "an
affliction," though one who suffers from either is said to be
afflicted; but deprivations of every kind, such as deafness,
blindness, loss of limbs, etc., are called afflictions, showing that
term applies particularly to prolonged sources of suffering. Sorrow
and grief are much alike in meaning, but grief is the stronger term
of the two, usually denoting poignant mental suffering for some
definite cause, as, grief for the death of a dear friend; sorrow is
more reflective, and is tinged with regret, as, the misconduct of a
child is looked upon with sorrow. Grief is often violent and
demonstrative; sorrow deep and brooding. Distress implies extreme
suffering, either bodily or mental. In its higher stages, it denotes
pain of a restless, agitating kind, and almost always supposes some
struggle of mind or body. Affliction is allayed, grief subsides,
sorrow is soothed, distress is mitigated.

AFFLICTIONLESS
Af*flic"tion*less, a.

Defn: Free from affliction.

AFFLICTIVE
Af*flic"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. afflictif.]

Defn: Giving pain; causing continued or repeated pain or grief;
distressing. "Jove's afflictive hand." Pope.
Spreads slow disease, and darts afflictive pain. Prior.

AFFLICTIVELY
Af*flic"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an afflictive manner.

AFFLUENCE
Af"flu*ence, n. Etym: [F. affluence, L. affluentia, fr. affluens, p.
pr. of affluere to flow to; ad + fluere to flow. See Flux.]

1. A flowing to or towards; a concourse; an influx.
The affluence of young nobles from hence into Spain. Wotton.
There is an unusual affluence of strangers this year. Carlyle.

2. An abundant supply, as of thought, words, feelings, etc.;
profusion; also, abundance of property; wealth.
And old age of elegance, affluence, and ease. Coldsmith.

Syn.
 -- Abundance; riches; profusion; exuberance; plenty; wealth;
opulence.

AFFLUENCY
Af"flu*en*cy, n.

Defn: Affluence. [Obs.] Addison.

AFFLUENT
Af"flu*ent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. affluent, L. affluens, -entis, p. pr.
See Affluence.]

1. Flowing to; flowing abundantly. "Affluent blood." Harvey.

2. Abundant; copious; plenteous; hence, wealthy; abounding in goods
or riches.
Language . . . affluent in expression. H. Reed.
Loaded and blest with all the affluent store, Which human vows at
smoking shrines implore. Prior.

AFFLUENT
Af"flu*ent, n.

Defn: A stream or river flowing into a larger river or into a lake; a
tributary stream.

AFFLUENTLY
Af"flu*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: Abundantly; copiously.

AFFLUENTNESS
Af*flu*ent*ness, n.

Defn: Great plenty. [R.]

AFFLUX
Af"flux`, n. Etym: [L. affluxum, p. p. of affluere: cf. F. afflux.
See Affluence.]

Defn: A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of blood
to the head.

AFFLUXION
Af*flux"ion, n.

Defn: The act of flowing towards; afflux. Sir T. Browne.

AFFODILL
Af"fo*dill, n.

Defn: Asphodel. [Obs.]

AFFORCE
Af*force", v. t. Etym: [OF. afforcier, LL. affortiare; ad + fortiare,
fr. L. fortis strong.]

Defn: To reënforce; to strengthen. Hallam.

AFFORCEMENT
Af*force"ment, n. Etym: [OF.]

1. A fortress; a fortification for defense. [Obs.] Bailey.

2. A reënforcement; a strengthening. Hallam.

AFFORCIAMENT
Af*for"ci*a*ment, n.

Defn: See Afforcement. [Obs.]

AFFORD
Af*ford", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Afforded; p. pr. & vb. n. Affording.]
Etym: [OE. aforthen, AS. gefor, for, to further, accomplish, afford,
fr. for forth, forward. The prefix ge- has no well defined sense. See
Forth.]

1. To give forth; to supply, yield, or produce as the natural result,
fruit, or issue; as, grapes afford wine; olives afford oil; the earth
affords fruit; the sea affords an abundant supply of fish.

2. To give, grant, or confer, with a remoter reference to its being
the natural result; to provide; to furnish; as, a good life affords
consolation in old age.
His tuneful Muse affords the sweetest numbers. Addison.
The quiet lanes . . . afford calmer retreats. Gilpin.

3. To offer, provide, or supply, as in selling, granting, expending,
with profit, or without loss or too great injury; as, A affords his
goods cheaper than B; a man can afford a sum yearly in charity.

4. To incur, stand, or bear without serious detriment, as an act
which might under other circumstances be injurious; -- with an
auxiliary, as can, could, might, etc.; to be able or rich enough.
The merchant can afford to trade for smaller profits. Hamilton.
He could afford to suffer With those whom he saw suffer. Wordsworth.

AFFORDABLE
Af*ford"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be afforded.

AFFORDMENT
Af*ford"ment, n.

Defn: Anything given as a help; bestowal. [Obs.]

AFFOREST
Af*for"est, v. t. Etym: [LL. afforestare; ad + forestare. See
Forest.]

Defn: To convert into a forest; as, to afforest a tract of country.

AFFORESTATION
Af*for`es*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of converting into forest or woodland. Blackstone.

AFFORMATIVE
Af*form"a*tive, n.

Defn: An affix.

AFFRANCHISE
Af*fran"chise, v. t. Etym: [F. affranchir; (L. ad) + franc free. See
Franchise and Frank.]

Defn: To make free; to enfranchise. Johnson.

AFFRANCHISEMENT
Af*fran"chise*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. affranchissement.]

Defn: The act of making free; enfranchisement. [R.]

AFFRAP
Af*frap", v. t. & i. Etym: [Cf. It. affrappare, frappare, to cut,
mince, F. frapper to strike. See Frap.]

Defn: To strike, or strike down. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFRAY
Af*fray", v. t. [p. p. Affrayed.] Etym: [OE. afraien, affraien, OF.
effreer, esfreer, F. effrayer, orig. to disquiet, put out of peace,
fr. L. ex + OHG. fridu peace (akin to E. free). Cf. Afraid, Fray,
Frith inclosure.] [Archaic]

1. To startle from quiet; to alarm.
Smale foules a great heap That had afrayed [affrayed] me out of my
sleep. Chaucer.

2. To frighten; to scare; to frighten away.
That voice doth us affray. Shak.

AFFRAY
Af*fray", n. Etym: [OE. afrai, affrai, OF. esfrei, F. effroi, fr. OF.
esfreer. See Affray, v. t.]

1. The act of suddenly disturbing any one; an assault or attack.
[Obs.]

2. Alarm; terror; fright. [Obs.] Spenser.

3. A tumultuous assault or quarrel; a brawl; a fray. "In the very
midst of the affray." Motley.

4. (Law)

Defn: The fighting of two or more persons, in a public place, to the
terror of others. Blackstone.

Note: A fighting in private is not, in a legal sense, an affray.

Syn.
 -- Quarrel; brawl; scuffle; encounter; fight; contest; feud; tumult;
disturbance.

AFFRAYER
Af*fray"er, n.

Defn: One engaged in an affray.

AFFRAYMENT
Af*fray"ment, n.

Defn: Affray. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFREIGHT
Af*freight", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + freight: cf. F. affréter. See
Freight.]

Defn: To hire, as a ship, for the transportation of goods or freight.

AFFREIGHTER
Af*freight"er, n.

Defn: One who hires or charters a ship to convey goods.

AFFREIGHTMENT
Af*freight"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. affrétement.]

Defn: The act of hiring, or the contract for the use of, a vessel, or
some part of it, to convey cargo.

AFFRET
Af*fret", n. Etym: [Cf. It. affrettare to hasten, fretta haste.]

Defn: A furious onset or attack. [Obs.] Spenser.

AFFRICATE
Af"fri*cate, n. [L. affricatus, p. p. of affricare to rub against;
af- = ad- + fricare to rub.] (Phon.)

Defn: A combination of a stop, or explosive, with an immediately
following fricative or spirant of corresponding organic position, as
pf in german Pfeffer, pepper, z (= ts) in German Zeit, time.

AFFRICTION
Af*fric"tion, n. Etym: [L. affricare to rub on. See Friction.]

Defn: The act of rubbing against. [Obs.]

AFFRIENDED
Af*friend"ed, p. p.

Defn: Made friends; reconciled. [Obs.] "Deadly foes . . .
affriended." Spenser.

AFFRIGHT
Af*fright", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affrighted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Affrighting.] Etym: [Orig. p. p.; OE. afright, AS. afyrhtan to
terrify; a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning out) + fyrhto
fright. See Fright.]

Defn: To impress with sudden fear; to frighten; to alarm.
Dreams affright our souls. Shak.
A drear and dying sound Affrights the flamens at their service
quaint. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To terrify; frighten; alarm; dismay; appall; scare; startle;
daunt; intimidate.

AFFRIGHT
Af*fright", p. a.

Defn: Affrighted. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AFFRIGHT
Af*fright", n.

1. Sudden and great fear; terror. It expresses a stronger impression
than fear, or apprehension, perhaps less than terror.
He looks behind him with affright, and forward with despair.
Goldsmith.

2. The act of frightening; also, a cause of terror; an object of
dread. B. Jonson.

AFFRIGHTEDLY
Af*fright"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With fright. Drayton.

AFFRIGHTEN
Af*fright"en, v. t.

Defn: To frighten. [Archaic] "Fit tales . . . to affrighten babes."
Southey.

AFFRIGHTER
Af*fright"er, n.

Defn: One who frightens. [Archaic]

AFFRIGHTFUL
Af*fright"ful, a.

Defn: Terrifying; frightful.
 -- Af*fright"ful*ly, adv. [Archaic]
Bugbears or affrightful apparitions. Cudworth.

AFFRIGHTMENT
Af*fright"ment, n.

Defn: Affright; the state of being frightened; sudden fear or alarm.
[Archaic]
Passionate words or blows . . . fill the child's mind with terror and
affrightment. Locke.

AFFRONT
Af*front", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affronted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Affronting.] Etym: [OF. afronter, F. affronter, to confront, LL.
affrontare to strike against, fr. L. ad + frons forehead, front. See
Front.]

1. To front; to face in position; to meet or encounter face to face.
[Obs.]
All the sea-coasts do affront the Levant. Holland.
That he, as 't were by accident, may here Affront Ophelia. Shak.

2. To face in defiance; to confront; as, to confront; as, to affront
death; hence, to meet in hostile encounter. [Archaic]

3. To offend by some manifestation of disrespect; to insult to the
face by demeanor or language; to treat with marked incivility.
How can any one imagine that the fathers would have dared to affront
the wife of Aurelius Addison.

Syn.
 -- TO insult; abuse; outrage; wound; illtreat; slight; defy; offend;
provoke; pique; nettle.

AFFRONT
Af*front", n. Etym: [Cf. F. affront, fr. affronter.]

1. An encounter either friendly or hostile. [Obs.]
I walked about, admired of all, and dreaded On hostile ground, none
daring my affront. Milton.

2. Contemptuous or rude treatment which excites or justifies
resentment; marked disrespect; a purposed indignity; insult.
Offering an affront to our understanding. Addison.

3. An offense to one's self-respect; shame. Arbuthnot.

Syn.
 -- Affront, Insult, Outrage. An affront is a designed mark of
disrespect, usually in the presence of others. An insult is a
personal attack either by words or actions, designed to humiliate or
degrade. An outrage is an act of extreme and violent insult or abuse.
An affront piques and mortifies; an insult irritates and provokes; an
outrage wounds and injures.
Captious persons construe every innocent freedom into an affront.
When people are in a state of animosity, they seek opportunities of
offering each other insults. Intoxication or violent passion impels
men to the commission of outrages. Crabb.

AFFRONTE
Af*fron*té", a. Etym: [F. affronté, p. p.] (Her.)

Defn: Face to face, or front to front; facing.

AFFRONTEDLY
Af*front"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Shamelessly. [Obs.] Bacon.

AFFRONTEE
Af*fron*tee", n.

Defn: One who receives an affront. Lytton.

AFFRONTER
Af*front"er, n.

Defn: One who affronts, or insults to the face.

AFFRONTINGLY
Af*front"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an affronting manner.

AFFRONTIVE
Af*front"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to affront or offend; offensive; abusive.
How affrontive it is to despise mercy. South.

AFFRONTIVENESS
Af*front"ive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality that gives an affront or offense. [R.] Bailey.

AFFUSE
Af*fuse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affused; p. pr. & vb. n. Affusing.]
Etym: [L. affusus, p. p. of affundere to pour to; ad + fundere. See
Fuse.]

Defn: To pour out or upon. [R.]
I first affused water upon the compressed beans. Boyle.

AFFUSION
Af*fu"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. affusion.]

Defn: The act of pouring upon, or sprinkling with a liquid, as water
upon a child in baptism. Specifically: (Med)

Defn: The act of pouring water or other fluid on the whole or a part
of the body, as a remedy in disease. Dunglison.

AFFY
Af*fy", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Affied; p. pr. Affying.] Etym: [OF.
afier, LL. affidare. Cf. Affiance.]

1. To confide (one's self to, or in); to trust. [Obs.]

2. To betroth or espouse; to affiance. [Obs.] Shak.

3. To bind in faith. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu.

AFFY
Af*fy", v. i.

Defn: To trust or confide. [Obs.] Shak.

AFGHAN
Af"ghan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Afghanistan.

AFGHAN
Af"ghan, n.

1. A native of Afghanistan.

2. A kind of worsted blanket or wrap.

AFIELD
A*field", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + field.]

1. To, in, or on the field. "We drove afield." Milton.
How jocund did they drive their team afield! Gray.

2. Out of the way; astray.
Why should he wander afield at the age of fifty-five! Trollope.

AFIRE
A*fire", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + fire.]

Defn: On fire.

AFLAME
A*flame", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flame.]

Defn: Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze. G. Eliot.

AFLAT
A*flat", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + flat.]

Defn: Level with the ground; flat. [Obs.] Bacon.

AFLAUNT
A*flaunt", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flaunt.]

Defn: In a flaunting state or position. Copley.

AFLICKER
A*flick"er, adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flicker.]

Defn: In a flickering state.

AFLOAT
A*float", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + float.]

1. Borne on the water; floating; on board ship.
On such a full sea are we now afloat. Shak.

2. Moving; passing from place to place; in general circulation; as, a
rumor is afloat.

3. Unfixed; moving without guide or control; adrift; as, our affairs
are all afloat.

AFLOW
A*flow", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flow.]

Defn: Flowing.
Their founts aflow with tears. R. Browning.

AFLUSH
A*flush", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flush, n.]

Defn: In a flushed or blushing state.

AFLUSH
A*flush", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flush, a.]

Defn: On a level.
The bank is . . . aflush with the sea. Swinburne.

AFLUTTER
A*flut"ter, adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + flutter.]

Defn: In a flutter; agitated.

AFOAM
A*foam", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + foam.]

Defn: In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam.

A. F. OF L.
A. F. of L. (Abbrev.)

Defn: American Federation of Labor.

AFOOT
A*foot", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + foot.]

1. On foot.
We 'll walk afoot a while. Shak.

2. Fig.: In motion; in action; astir; in progress.
The matter being afoot. Shak.

AFORE
A*fore", adv. Etym: [OE. afore, aforn, AS. onforan or ætforan; pref.
a- + fore.]

1. Before. [Obs.]
If he have never drunk wine afore. Shak.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: In the fore part of a vessel.

AFORE
A*fore", prep.

1. Before (in all its senses). [Archaic]

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Before; in front of; farther forward than; as, afore the
windlass. Afore the mast, among the common sailors; -- a phrase used
to distinguish the ship's crew from the officers.

AFORECITED
A*fore"cit`ed, a.

Defn: Named or quoted before.

AFOREGOING
A*fore"go`ing, a.

Defn: Going before; foregoing.

AFOREHAND
A*fore"hand` adv.

Defn: Beforehand; in anticipation. [Archaic or Dial.]
She is come aforehand to anoint my body. Mark xiv. 8.

AFOREHAND
A*fore"hand`, a.

Defn: Prepared; previously provided; -- opposed to behindhand.
[Archaic or Dial.]
Aforehand in all matters of power. Bacon.

AFOREMENTIONED
A*fore"men`tioned, a.

Defn: Previously mentioned; before-mentioned. Addison.

AFORENAMED
A*fore"named`, a.

Defn: Named before. Peacham.

AFORESAID
A*fore"said`, a.

Defn: Said before, or in a preceding part; already described or
identified.

AFORETHOUGHT
A*fore"thought`, a.

Defn: Premeditated; prepense; previously in mind; designed; as,
malice aforethought, which is required to constitute murder. Bouvier.

AFORETHOUGHT
A*fore"thought`, n.

Defn: Premeditation.

AFORETIME
A*fore"time`, adv.

Defn: In time past; formerly. "He prayed . . . as he did aforetime."
Dan. vi. 10.

A FORTIORI
A for`ti*o"ri. Etym: [L.] (Logic & Math.)

Defn: With stronger reason.

AFOUL
A*foul", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + foul.]

Defn: In collision; entangled. Totten. To run afoul of, to run
against or come into collision with, especially so as to become
entangled or to cause injury.

AFRAID
A*fraid", p. a. Etym: [OE. afrayed, affraide, p. p. of afraien to
affray. See Affray, and cf. Afeard.]

Defn: Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive.
[Afraid comes after the noun it limits.] "Back they recoiled,
afraid." Milton.

Note: This word expresses a less degree of fear than terrified or
frightened. It is followed by of before the object of fear, or by the
infinitive, or by a dependent clause; as, to be afraid of death. "I
am afraid to die." "I am afraid he will chastise me." "Be not afraid
that I your hand should take." Shak. I am afraid is sometimes used
colloquially to soften a statement; as, I am afraid I can not help
you in this matter.

Syn.
 -- Fearful; timid; timorous; alarmed; anxious.

AFREET
Af"reet, n.

Defn: Same as Afrit.

AFRESH
A*fresh", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + fresh.]

Defn: Anew; again; once more; newly.
They crucify . . . the Son of God afresh. Heb. vi. 6.

AFRIC
Af"ric, a.

Defn: African.
 -- n.

Defn: Africa. [Poetic]

AFRICAN
Af"ri*can, a. Etym: [L. Africus, Africanus, fr. Afer African.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Africa. African hemp, a fiber prerared from
the leaves of the Sanseviera Guineensis, a plant found in Africa and
India.
 -- African marigold, a tropical American plant (Tagetes erecta).
 -- African oak or African teak, a timber furnished by Oldfieldia
Africana, used in ship building. African violet African-American, a
United States citizen of African descent.

AFRICAN
Af"ri*can, n.

Defn: A native of Africa; also one ethnologically belonging to an
African race.

AFRICANDER
Af`ri*can"der, n.

Defn: One born in Africa, the offspring of a white father and a
"colored" mother. Also, and now commonly in Southern Africa, a native
born of European settlers.

AFRICANISM
Af"ri*can*ism, n.

Defn: A word, phrase, idiom, or custom peculiar to Africa or
Africans. "The knotty Africanisms . . . of the fathers." Milton.

AFRICANIZE
Af"ri*can*ize, v. t.

Defn: To place under the domination of Africans or negroes. [Amer.]
Bartlett.

AFRIT; AFRITE; AFREET
Af"rit, Af"rite(#), Af"reet(#), n. Etym: [Arab. 'ifrit.] (Moham.
Myth.)

Defn: A powerful evil jinnee, demon, or monstrous giant.

AFRONT
A*front", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + front.]

Defn: In front; face to face.
 -- prep. In front of. Shak.

AFT
Aft, adv. & a. Etym: [AS. æftan behind; orig. superl. of of, off. See
After.] (Naut.)

Defn: Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft.

AFTER
Aft"er, a. Etym: [AS. æfter after, behind; akin to Goth. aftaro,
aftra, backwards, Icel. aptr, Sw. and Dan. efter, OHG. aftar behind,
Dutch and LG. achter, Gr. -ter is an old comparative suffix, in E.
generally -ther (as in other), and after is a compar. of of, off. Of;
cf. Aft.]

1. Next; later in time; subsequent; succeeding; as, an after period
of life. Marshall.

Note: In this sense the word is sometimes needlessly combined with
the following noun, by means of a hyphen, as, after-ages, after-act,
after-days, after-life. For the most part the words are properly kept
separate when after has this meaning.

2. Hinder; nearer the rear. (Naut.)

Defn: To ward the stern of the ship; -- applied to any object in the
rear part of a vessel; as the after cabin, after hatchway.

Note: It is often combined with its noun; as, after-bowlines, after-
braces, after-sails, after-yards, those on the mainmasts and
mizzenmasts. After body (Naut.), the part of a ship abaft the dead
flat, or middle part.

AFTER
Aft"er, prep.

1. Behind in place; as, men in line one after another. "Shut doors
after you." Shak.

2. Below in rank; next to in order. Shak.
Codrus after PhDryden.

3. Later in time; subsequent; as, after supper, after three days. It
often precedes a clause. Formerly that was interposed between it and
the clause.
After I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee. Matt.
xxvi. 32.

4. Subsequent to and in consequence of; as, after what you have said,
I shall be careful.

5. Subsequent to and notwithstanding; as, after all our advice, you
took that course.

6. Moving toward from behind; following, in search of; in pursuit of.
Ye shall not go after other gods. Deut. vi. 14.
After whom is the king of Israel come out 1 Sam. xxiv. 14.

7. Denoting the aim or object; concerning; in relation to; as, to
look after workmen; to inquire after a friend; to thirst after
righteousness.

8. In imitation of; in conformity with; after the manner of; as, to
make a thing after a model; a picture after Rubens; the boy takes
after his father. To name or call after, to name like and reference
to.
Our eldest son was named George after his uncle. Goldsmith.

9. According to; in accordance with; in conformity with the nature
of; as, he acted after his kind.
He shall not judge after the sight of his eyes. Isa. xi. 3.
They that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. Rom.
viii. 5.

10. According to the direction and influence of; in proportion to;
befitting. [Archaic]
He takes greatness of kingdoms according to bulk and currency, and
not after their intrinsic value. Bacon.
After all, when everything has been considered; upon the whole.
 -- After (with the same noun preceding and following), as, wave
after wave, day after day, several or many (waves, etc.)
successively.
 -- One after another, successively.
 -- To be after, to be in pursuit of in order to reach or get; as, he
is after money.

AFTER
Aft"er, adv.

Defn: Subsequently in time or place; behind; afterward; as, he
follows after.
It was about the space of three hours after. Acts. v. 7.

Note: After is prefixed to many words, forming compounds, but
retaining its usual signification. The prefix may be adverbial,
prepositional, or adjectival; as in after- described, after-dinner,
after-part. The hyphen is sometimes needlessly used to connect the
adjective after with its noun. See Note under After, a., 1.

AFTERBIRTH
Aft"er*birth`, n. (Med.)

Defn: The placenta and membranes with which the fetus is connected,
and which come away after delivery.

AFTERCAST
Aft"er*cast`, n.

Defn: A throw of dice after the game in ended; hence, anything done
too late. Gower.

AFTERCLAP
Aft"er*clap`, n.

Defn: An unexpected subsequent event; something disagreeable
happening after an affair is supposed to be at an end. Spenser.

AFTERCROP
Aft"er*crop`, n.

Defn: A second crop or harvest in the same year. Mortimer.

AFTER DAMP
Aft"er damp`.

Defn: An irrespirable gas, remaining after an explosion of fire damp
in mines; choke damp. See Carbonic acid.

AFTER-DINNER
Aft"er-din`ner(#), n.

Defn: The time just after dinner. "An after-dinner's sleep." Shak.
[Obs.] -- a.

Defn: Following dinner; post-prandial; as, an after-dinner nap.

AFTER-EATAGE
Aft"er-eat`age(#), n.

Defn: Aftergrass.

AFTEREYE
Aft"er*eye`, v. t.

Defn: To look after. [Poetic] Shak.

AFTERGAME
Aft"er*game`, n.

Defn: A second game; hence, a subsequent scheme or expedient. Wotton.
Aftergame at Irish, an ancient game very nearly resembling
backgammon. Beau. & Fl.

AFTER-GLOW
Aft"er-glow(#), n.

Defn: A glow of refulgence in the western sky after sunset.

AFTERGRASS
Aft"er*grass`, n.

Defn: The grass that grows after the first crop has been mown;
aftermath.

AFTERGROWTH
Aft"er*growth`, n.

Defn: A second growth or crop, or (metaphorically) development. J. S.
Mill.

AFTERGUARD
Aft"er*guard`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The seaman or seamen stationed on the poop or after part of the
ship, to attend the after-sails. Totten.

AFTER-IMAGE
Aft"er-im`age(#), n.

Defn: The impression of a vivid sensation retained by the retina of
the eye after the cause has been removed; also extended to
impressions left of tones, smells, etc.

AFTERINGS
Aft"er*ings, n. pl.

Defn: The last milk drawn in milking; strokings. [Obs.] Grose.

AFTERMATH
Aft"er*math, n. Etym: [After + math. See Math.]

Defn: A second moving; the grass which grows after the first crop of
hay in the same season; rowen. Holland.

AFTER-MENTIONED
Aft"er-men`tioned(#), a.

Defn: Mentioned afterwards; as, persons after-mentioned (in a
writing).

AFTERMOST
Aft"er*most, a. superl. Etym: [OE. eftemest, AS. æftemest,akin to
Gothic aftumist and aftuma, the last, orig. a superlative of of, with
the superlative endings -te, -me, -st.]

1. Hindmost; -- opposed to foremost.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Nearest the stern; most aft.

AFTERNOON
Aft"er*noon", n.

Defn: The part of the day which follows noon, between noon and
evening.

AFTER-NOTE
Aft"er-note`(#), n. (Mus.)

Defn: One of the small notes occur on the unaccented parts of the
measure, taking their time from the preceding note.

AFTERPAINS
Aft"er*pains`, n. pl. (Med.)

Defn: The pains which succeed childbirth, as in expelling the
afterbirth.

AFTERPIECE
Aft"er*piece`, n.

1. A piece performed after a play, usually a farce or other small
entertainment.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The heel of a rudder.

AFTER-SAILS
Aft"er-sails`(#), n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: The sails on the mizzenmast, or on the stays between the
mainmast and mizzenmast. Totten.

AFTERSENSATION
Aft"er*sen*sa`tion, n. (Psychol.)

Defn: A sensation or sense impression following the removal of a
stimulus producing a primary sensation, and reproducing the primary
sensation in positive, negative, or complementary form. The
aftersensation may be continuous with the primary sensation or follow
it after an interval.

AFTERSHAFT
Aft"er*shaft`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hypoptilum.

AFTERTASTE
Aft"er*taste`, n.

Defn: A taste which remains in the mouth after eating or drinking.

AFTERTHOUGHT
Aft"er*thought`, n.

Defn: Reflection after an act; later or subsequent thought or
expedient.

AFTERWARDS; AFTERWARD
Aft"er*wards, Aft"er*ward, adv. Etym: [AS. æfteweard, a., behind. See
Aft, and -ward (suffix). The final s in afterwards is adverbial,
orig. a genitive ending.]

Defn: At a later or succeeding time.

AFTERWISE
Aft"er*wise`, a.

Defn: Wise after the event; wise or knowing, when it is too late.

AFTER-WIT
Aft"er-wit`, n.

Defn: Wisdom or perception that comes after it can be of use. "After-
wit comes too late when the mischief is done." L'Estrange.

AFTER-WITTED
Aft"er-wit`ted, a.

Defn: Characterized by afterwit; slow-witted. Tyndale.

AFTMOST
Aft"most, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Nearest the stern.

AFTWARD
Aft"ward, adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Toward the stern.

AGA; AGHA
A*ga" or A*gha", n. Etym: [Turk. adha a great lord, chief master.]

Defn: In Turkey, a commander or chief officer. It is used also as a
title of respect.

AGAIN
A*gain", adv. Etym: [OE. agein, agayn, AS. ongegn, ongeán, against,
again; on + geán, akin to Ger. gegewn against, Icel. gegn. Cf.
Gainsay.]

1. In return, back; as, bring us word again.

2. Another time; once more; anew.
If a man die, shall he live again Job xiv. 14.

3. Once repeated; -- of quantity; as, as large again, half as much
again.

4. In any other place. [Archaic] Bacon.

5. On the other hand. "The one is my sovereign . . . the other again
is my kinsman." Shak.

6. Moreover; besides; further.
Again, it is of great consequence to avoid, etc. Hersche
Again and again, more than once; often; repeatedly.
 -- Now and again, now and then; occasionally.
 -- To and again, to and fro. [Obs.] De Foe.

Note: Again was formerly used in many verbal combinations, as, again-
witness, to witness against; again-ride, to ride against; again-come,
to come against, to encounter; again-bring, to bring back, etc.

AGAIN; AGAINS
A*gain", A*gains", prep.

Defn: Against; also, towards (in order to meet). [Obs.]
Albeit that it is again his kind. Chaucer.

AGAINBUY
A*gain"buy`, v. t.

Defn: To redeem. [Obs.] Wyclif.

AGAINSAY
A*gain"say`, v. t.

Defn: To gainsay. [Obs.] Wyclif.

AGAINST
A*gainst", prep. Etym: [OE. agens, ageynes, AS. ongegn. The s is
adverbial, orig. a genitive ending. See Again.]

1. Abreast; opposite to; facing; towards; as, against the mouth of a
river; -- in this sense often preceded by over.
Jacob saw the angels of God come against him. Tyndale.

2. From an opposite direction so as to strike or come in contact
with; in contact with; upon; as, hail beats against the roof.

3. In opposition to, whether the opposition is of sentiment or of
action; on the other side; counter to; in contrariety to; hence,
adverse to; as, against reason; against law; to run a race against
time.
The gate would have been shut against her. Fielding.
An argument against the use of steam. Tyndale.

4. By of before the time that; in preparation for; so as to be ready
for the time when. [Archaic or Dial.]
Urijah the priest made it, against King Ahaz came from Damascus. 2
Kings xvi. 11.
Against the sun, in a direction contrary to that in which the sun
appears to move.

AGAINSTAND
A*gain"stand`, v. t.

Defn: To withstand. [Obs.]

AGAINWARD
A*gain"ward, adv.

Defn: Back again. [Obs.]

AGALACTIA; AGALAXY
Ag`a*lac"ti*a, Ag"a*lax`y, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Failure of the due secretion of milk after childbirth.

AGALACTOUS
Ag`a*lac"tous, a.

Defn: Lacking milk to suckle with.

AGAL-AGAL
A`gal-a"gal, n.

Defn: Same as Agar-agar.

AGALLOCH; AGALLOCHUM
Ag"al*loch, A*gal"lo*chum, n. Etym: [Gr. aguru, Heb. pl. ahalim.]

Defn: A soft, resinous wood (Aquilaria Agallocha) of highly aromatic
smell, burnt by the orientals as a perfume. It is called also
agalwood and aloes wood. The name is also given to some other
species.

AGALMATOLITE
Ag`al*mat"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. agalmatolithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A soft, compact stone, of a grayish, greenish, or yellowish
color, carved into images by the Chinese, and hence called figure
stone, and pagodite. It is probably a variety of pinite.

AGAMA
Ag"a*ma, n.; pl. Agamas. Etym: [From the Caribbean name of a species
of lizard.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetable
substances; also, one of these lizards.

AGAMI
Ag"a*mi, n.; pl. Agamis. Etym: [F. agex, fr. the native name.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American bird (Psophia crepitans), allied to the
cranes, and easily domesticated; -- called also the gold-breasted
trumpeter. Its body is about the size of the pheasant. See Trumpeter.

AGAMIC
A*gam"ic, a. Etym: [Agamous.]
(a) (Biol.) Produced without sexual union; as, agamic or unfertilized
eggs.
(b) Not having visible organs of reproduction, as flowerless plants;
agamous.

AGAMICALLY
A*gam"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agamic manner.

AGAMIST
Ag"a*mist, n. Etym: [See Agamous.]

Defn: An unmarried person; also, one opposed to marriage. Foxe.

AGAMOGENESIS
Ag`a*mo*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Reproduction without the union of parents of distinct sexes:
asexual reproduction.

AGAMOGENETIC
Ag`a*mo*ge*net"ic, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Reproducing or produced without sexual union.
 -- Ag`a*mo*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
All known agamogenetic processes end in a complete return to the
primitive stock. Huxley.

AGAMOUS
Ag"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Having no visible sexual organs; asexual. In Bot.,
cryptogamous.

AGANGLIONIC
A*gan`gli*o"nic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + ganglionic.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Without ganglia.

AGAPE
A*gape", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + gape.]

Defn: Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention.
Dazzles the crowd and sets them all agape. Milton.

AGAPE
Ag"a*pe, n.; pl. Agapæ. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The love feast of the primitive Christians, being a meal
partaken of in connection with the communion.

AGAR-AGAR
A`gar-a"gar, n. Etym: [Ceylonese local name.]

Defn: A fucus or seaweed much used in the East for soups and jellies;
Ceylon moss (Gracilaria lichenoides).

AGARIC
Ag"a*ric, n. Etym: [L. agaricum, Gr. Agara, a town in Sarmatia.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which the
common mushroom is an example.

2. An old name for severwal species of Polyporus, corky fungi growing
on decaying wood.

Note: The "female agaric" (Polyporus officinalic) was renowned as a
cathartic; the "male agaric" (Polyporus igniarius) is used for
preparing touchwood, called punk of German tinder. Agaric mineral, a
light, chalky deposit of carbonate of lime, sometimes called rock
milk, formed in caverns or fissures of limestone.

AGASP
A*gasp", adv. & a. Etym: [. a- + gasp.]

Defn: In a state of gasping. Coleridge.

AGAST
A*gast", p. p. & a.

Defn: See Aghast.

AGAST; AGHAST
A*gast" or A*ghast", v. t.

Defn: To affright; to terrify. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

AGASTRIC
A*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Having to stomach, or distinct digestive canal, as the
tapeworm.

AGATE
A*gate", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- on + gate way.]

Defn: On the way; agoing; as, to be agate; to set the bells agate.
[Obs.] Cotgrave.

AGATE
Ag"ate, n. Etym: [F. agate, It. agata, L. achates, fr. Gr.

1. (Min.)

Defn: A semipellucid, uncrystallized variety of quartz, presenting
various tints in the same specimen. Its colors are delicately
arranged in stripes or bands, or blended in clouds.

Note: The fortification agate, or Scotch pebble, the moss agate, the
clouded agate, etc., are familiar varieties.

2. (Print.)

Defn: A kind of type, larger than pearl and smaller than nonpareil;
in England called ruby.

Note: This line is printed in the type called agate.

3. A diminutive person; so called in allusion to the small figures
cut in agate for rings and seals. [Obs.] Shak.

4. A tool used by gold-wire drawers, bookbinders, etc.; -- so called
from the agate fixed in it for burnishing.

AGATIFEROUS
Ag`a*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Agate + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or producing agates. Craig.

AGATINE
Ag"a*tine, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, agate.

AGATIZE
Ag"a*tize, v. t. Etym: [Usually p. p. Agatized(#).]

Defn: To convert into agate; to make resemble agate. Dana.

AGATY
Ag"a*ty, a.

Defn: Of the nature of agate, or containing agate.

AGAVE
A*ga"ve, n. Etym: [L. Agave, prop. name, fr. Gr. (bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceæ) of which the chief
species is the maguey or century plant (A. Americana), wrongly called
Aloe. It is from ten to seventy years, according to climate, in
attaining maturity, when it produces a gigantic flower stem,
sometimes forty feet in height, and perishes. The fermented juice is
the pulque of the Mexicans; distilled, it yields mescal. A strong
thread and a tough paper are made from the leaves, and the wood has
many uses.

AGAZED
A*gazed", p. p. Etym: [Only in p. p.; another spelling for aghast.]

Defn: Gazing with astonishment; amazed. [Obs.]
The whole army stood agazed on him. Shak.

AGE
Age, n. Etym: [OF. aage, eage, F. âge, fr. L. aetas through a
supposed LL. aetaticum. L. aetas is contracted fr. aevitas, fr. aevum
lifetime, age; akin to E. aye ever. Cf. Each.]

1. The whole duration of a being, whether animal, vegetable, or other
kind; lifetime.
Mine age is as nothing before thee. Ps. xxxix. 5.

2. That part of the duration of a being or a thing which is between
its beginning and any given time; as, what is the present age of a
man, or of the earth

3. The latter part of life; an advanced period of life; seniority;
state of being old.
Nor wrong mine age with this indignity. Shak.

4. One of the stages of life; as, the age of infancy, of youth, etc.
Shak.

5. Mature age; especially, the time of life at which one attains full
personal rights and capacities; as, to come of age; he (or she) is of
age. Abbott.

Note: In the United States, both males and females are of age when
twenty-one years old.

6. The time of life at which some particular power or capacity is
understood to become vested; as, the age of consent; the age of
discretion. Abbott.

7. A particular period of time in history, as distinguished from
others; as, the golden age, the age of Pericles. "The spirit of the
age." Prescott.
Truth, in some age or other, will find her witness. Milton.
Archeological ages are designated as three: The Stone age (the early
and the later stone age, called paleolithic and neolithic), the
Bronze age, and the Iron age. During the Age of Stone man is supposed
to have employed stone for weapons and implements. See Augustan,
Brazen, Golden, Heroic, Middle.

8. A great period in the history of the Earth.

Note: The geologic ages are as follows: 1. The Archæan, including the
time when was no life and the time of the earliest and simplest forms
of life. 2. The age of Invertebrates, or the Silurian, when the life
on the globe consisted distinctively of invertebrates. 3. The age of
Fishes, or the Devonian, when fishes were the dominant race. 4. The
age of Coal Plants, or Acrogens, or the Carboniferous age. 5. The
Mesozoic or Secondary age, or age of Reptiles, when reptiles
prevailed in great numbers and of vast size. 6. The Tertiary age, or
age of Mammals, when the mammalia, or quadrupeds, abounded, and were
the dominant race. 7. The Quaternary age, or age of Man, or the
modern era. Dana.

9. A century; the period of one hundred years.
Fleury . . . apologizes for these five ages. Hallam.

10. The people who live at a particular period; hence, a generation.
"Ages yet unborn." Pope.
The way which the age follows. J. H. Newman.
Lo! where the stage, the poor, degraded stage, Holds its warped
mirror to a gaping age. C. Sprague.

11. A long time. [Colloq.] "He made minutes an age." Tennyson. Age of
a tide, the time from the origin of a tide in the South Pacific Ocean
to its arrival at a given place.
 -- Moon's age, the time that has elapsed since the last preceding
conjunction of the sun and moon.

Note: Age is used to form the first part of many compounds; as,
agelasting, age-adorning, age-worn, age-enfeebled, agelong.

Syn.
 -- Time; period; generation; date; era; epoch.

AGE
Age, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Aged; p. pr. & vb. n. Aging.]

Defn: To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age; as, he grew
fat as he aged.
They live one hundred and thirty years, and never age for all that.
Holland.
I am aging; that is, I have a whitish, or rather a light-colored,
hair here and there. Landor.

AGE
Age, v. t.

Defn: To cause to grow old; to impart the characteristics of age to;
as, grief ages us.

AGED
A"ged, a.

1. Old; having lived long; having lived almost to or beyond the usual
time allotted to that species of being; as, an aged man; an aged oak.

2. Belonging to old age. "Aged cramps." Shak.

3. Having a certain age; at the age of; having lived; as, a man aged
forty years.

AGEDLY
A"ged*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of an aged person.

AGEDNESS
A"ged*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being aged; oldness.
Custom without truth is but agedness of error. Milton.

AGELESS
Age"less, a.

Defn: Without old age limits of duration; as, fountains of ageless
youth.

AGEN
A*gen", adv. & prep.

Defn: See Again. [Obs.]

AGENCY
A"gen*cy, n.; pl. Agencies. Etym: [agentia, fr. L. agens, agentis:
cf. F. agence. See Agent.]

1. The faculty of acting or of exerting power; the state of being in
action; action; instrumentality.
The superintendence and agency of Providence in the natural world.
Woodward.

2. The office of an agent, or factor; the relation between a
principal and his agent; business of one intrusted with the concerns
of another.

3. The place of business of am agent.

Syn.
 -- Action; operation; efficiency; management.

AGEND
A"gend, n.

Defn: See Agendum. [Obs.]

AGENDUM
A*gen"dum, n.; pl. Agenda. Etym: [L., neut. of the gerundive of agere
to act.]

1. Something to be done; in the pl., a memorandum book.

2. A church service; a ritual or liturgy. [In this sense, usually
Agenda.]

AGENESIC
Ag`e*nes"ic, a. Etym: [See Agensis.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Characterized by sterility; infecund.

AGENESIS
A*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Any imperfect development of the body, or any anomaly of
organization.

AGENNESIS
Ag`en*ne"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Impotence; sterility.

AGENT
A"gent, a. Etym: [L. agens, agentis, p. pr. of agere to act; akin to
Gr. aka to drive, Skr. aj.

Defn: Actingpatient, or sustaining, action. [Archaic] "The body
agent." Bacon.

AGENT
A"gent, n.

1. One who exerts power, or has the power to act; an actor.
Heaven made us agents, free to good or ill. Dryden.

2. One who acts for, or in the place of, another, by authority from
him; one intrusted with the business of another; a substitute; a
deputy; a factor.

3. An active power or cause; that which has the power to produce an
effect; as, a physical, chemical, or medicinal agent; as, heat is a
powerful agent.

AGENTIAL
A*gen"tial, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an agent or an agency. Fitzed. Hall.

AGENTSHIP
A"gent*ship, n.

Defn: Agency. Beau. & Fl.

AGERATUM
A*ger"a*tum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, one species of which (A. Mexicanum) has
lavender-blue flowers in dense clusters.

AGGENERATION
Ag*gen`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. aggenerare to beget in addition. See
Generate.]

Defn: The act of producing in addition. [Obs.] T. Stanley.

AGGER
Ag"ger, n. Etym: [L., a mound, fr. aggerere to bear to a place, heap
up; ad + gerere to bear.]

Defn: An earthwork; a mound; a raised work. [Obs.] Hearne.

AGGERATE
Ag"ger*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. aggeratus, p. p. of aggerare. See Agger.]

Defn: To heap up. [Obs.] Foxe.

AGGERATION
Ag`ger*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. aggeratio.]

Defn: A heaping up; accumulation; as, aggerations of sand. [R.]

AGGEROSE
Ag`ger*ose", a.

Defn: In heaps; full of heaps.

AGGEST
Ag*gest", v. t. Etym: [L. aggestus, p. p. of aggerere. See Agger.]

Defn: To heap up. [Obs.]
The violence of the waters aggested the earth. Fuller.

AGGLOMERATE
Ag*glom"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Agglomerated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Agglomerating.] Etym: [L. agglomeratus, p. p. of agglomerare; ad +
glomerare to form into a ball. See Glomerate.]

Defn: To wind or collect into a ball; hence, to gather into a mass or
anything like a mass.
Where he builds the agglomerated pile. Cowper.

AGGLOMERATE
Ag*glom"er*ate, v. i.

Defn: To collect in a mass.

AGGLOMERATE
Ag*glom"er*ate, n.

1. A collection or mass.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: A mass of angular volcanic fragments united by heat; --
distinguished from conglomerate.

AGGLOMERATE; AGGLOMERATED
Ag*glom"er*ate, Ag*glom"er*a`ted, a.

1. Collected into a ball, heap, or mass.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Collected into a rounded head of flowers.

AGGLOMERATION
Ag*glom`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agglomération.]

1. The act or process of collecting in a mass; a heaping together.
An excessive agglomeration of turrets. Warton.

2. State of being collected in a mass; a mass; cluster.

AGGLOMERATIVE
Ag*glom"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Having a tendency to gather together, or to make collections.
Taylor is eminently discursive, accumulative, and (to use one of his
own words) agglomerative. Coleridge.

AGGLUTINANT
Ag*glu"ti*nant, a. Etym: [L. agglutinans, -antis, p. pr. of
agglutinare.]

Defn: Uniting, as glue; causing, or tending to cause, adhesion.
 -- n.

Defn: Any viscous substance which causes bodies or parts to adhere.

AGGLUTINATE
Ag*glu"ti*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Agglutinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Agglutinating.] Etym: [L. agglutinatus, p. p. of agglutinare to glue
or cement to a thing; ad + glutinare to glue; gluten glue. See Glue.]

Defn: To unite, or cause to adhere, as with glue or other viscous
substance; to unite by causing an adhesion of substances.

AGGLUTINATE
Ag*glu"ti*nate, a.

1. United with glue or as with glue; cemented together.

2. (physiol.)

Defn: Consisting of root words combined but not materially altered as
to form or meaning; as, agglutinate forms, languages, etc. See
Agglutination, 2.

AGGLUTINATION
Ag*glu`ti*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agglutination.]

1. The act of uniting by glue or other tenacious substance; the state
of being thus united; adhesion of parts.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Combination in which root words are united with little or no
change of form or loss of meaning. See Agglutinative, 2.

AGGLUTINATIVE
Ag*glu"ti*na*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. agglutinatif.]

1. Pertaining to agglutination; tending to unite, or having power to
cause adhesion; adhesive.

2. (Philol.)

Defn: Formed or characterized by agglutination, as a language or a
compound.
In agglutinative languages the union of words may be compared to
mechanical compounds, in inflective languages to chemical compounds.
R. Morris.
Cf. man-kind, heir-loom, war-like, which are agglutinative compounds.
The Finnish, Hungarian, Turkish, the Tamul, etc., are agglutinative
languages. R. Morris.
Agglutinative languages preserve the consciousness of their roots.
Max Müller.

AGGRACE
Ag*grace", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + grace: cf. It. aggraziare, LL.
aggratiare. See Grace.]

Defn: To favor; to grace. [Obs.] "That knight so much aggraced."
Spenser.

AGGRACE
Ag*grace", n.

Defn: Grace; favor. [Obs.] Spenser.

AGGRADE
Ag*grade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggraded; p. pr. & vb. n. Aggrading.]
(Phys. Geog.)

Defn: To bring, or tend to bring, to a uniform grade, or slope, by
addition of material; as, streams aggrade their beds by depositing
sediment.

AGGRANDIZABLE
Ag"gran*di"za*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being aggrandized.

AGGRANDIZATION
Ag*gran`di*za"tion, n.

Defn: Aggrandizement. [Obs.] Waterhouse.

AGGRANDIZE
Ag"gran*dize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggrandized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggrandizing.] Etym: [F. agrandir; à (L. ad) + grandir to increase,
L. grandire, fr. grandis great. See Grand, and cf. Finish.]

1. To make great; to enlarge; to increase; as, to aggrandize our
conceptions, authority, distress.

2. To make great or greater in power, rank, honor, or wealth; --
applied to persons, countries, etc.
His scheme for aggrandizing his son. Prescott.

3. To make appear great or greater; to exalt. Lamb.

Syn.
 -- To augment; exalt; promote; advance.

AGGRANDIZE
Ag"gran*dize, v. i.

Defn: To increase or become great. [Obs.]
Follies, continued till old age, do aggrandize. J. Hall.

AGGRANDIZEMENT
Ag*gran"dize*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agrandissement.]

Defn: The act of aggrandizing, or the state of being aggrandized or
exalted in power, rank, honor, or wealth; exaltation; enlargement;
as, the emperor seeks only the aggrandizement of his own family.

Syn.
 -- Augmentation; exaltation; enlargement; advancement; promotion;
preferment.

AGGRANDIZER
Ag"gran*di`zer, n.

Defn: One who aggrandizes, or makes great.

AGGRATE
Ag*grate", v. t. Etym: [It. aggratare, fr. L. ad + gratus pleasing.
See Grate, a.]

Defn: To please. [Obs.]
Each one sought his lady to aggrate. Spenser.

AGGRAVATE
Ag"gra*vate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggravated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggravating.] Etym: [L. aggravatus, p. p. of aggravare. See
Aggrieve.]

1. To make heavy or heavier; to add to; to increase. [Obs.] "To
aggravate thy store." Shak.

2. To make worse, or more severe; to render less tolerable or less
excusable; to make more offensive; to enhance; to intensify. "To
aggravate my woes." Pope.
To aggravate the horrors of the scene. Prescott.
The defense made by the prisioner's counsel did rather aggravate than
extenuate his crime. Addison.

3. To give coloring to in description; to exaggerate; as, to
aggravate circumstances. Paley.

4. To exasperate; to provoke; to irritate. [Colloq.]
If both were to aggravate her parents, as my brother and sister do
mine. Richardson (Clarissa).

Syn.
 -- To heighten; intensify; increase; magnify; exaggerate; provoke;
irritate; exasperate.

AGGRAVATING
Ag"gra*va`ting, a.

1. Making worse or more heinous; as, aggravating circumstances.

2. Exasperating; provoking; irritating. [Colloq.]
A thing at once ridiculous and aggravating. J. Ingelow.

AGGRAVATINGLY
Ag"gra*va`ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In an aggravating manner.

AGGRAVATION
Ag`gra*va"tion, n. Etym: [LL. aggravatio: cf. F. aggravation.]

1. The act of aggravating, or making worse; -- used of evils, natural
or moral; the act of increasing in severity or heinousness; something
additional to a crime or wrong and enhancing its guilt or injurious
consequences.

2. Exaggerated representation.
By a little aggravation of the features changed it into the Saracen's
head. Addison.

3. An extrinsic circumstance or accident which increases the guilt of
a crime or the misery of a calamity.

4. Provocation; irritation. [Colloq.] Dickens.

AGGRAVATIVE
Ag"gra*va*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to aggravate. Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n.
No aggressive movement was made. Macaulay.

AGGREGATE
Ag"gre*gate, a. [L. aggregatus, p. p.]

1. Formed by a collection of particulars into a whole mass or sum;
collective.

The aggregate testimony of many hundreds.
Sir T. Browne.

2.  (Anat.) Formed into clusters or groups of lobules; as, aggregate
glands.

3.  (Bot.) Composed of several florets within a common involucre, as
in the daisy; or of several carpels formed from one flower, as in the
raspberry.

4.  (Min. & Geol.) Having the several component parts adherent to
each other only to such a degree as to be separable by mechanical
means.

5.  (Zoöl.) United into a common organized mass; -- said of certain
compound animals.

Corporation aggregate. (Law) See under Corporation.

AGGREGATE
Ag"gre*gate, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Aggregated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggregating.] [L. aggregatus, p. p. of aggregare to lead to a flock
or herd; ad + gregare to collect into a flock, grex flock, herd. See
Gregarious.]

1. To bring together; to collect into a mass or sum. "The aggregated
soil."  Milton.

2.  To add or unite, as, a person, to an association.

It is many times hard to discern to which of the two sorts, the good
or the bad, a man ought to be aggregated.
Wollaston.

3.  To amount in the aggregate to; as, ten loads, aggregating five
hundred bushels. [Colloq.]

Syn. -- To heap up; accumulate; pile; collect.

AGGREGATE
Ag"gre*gate, n.

1. A mass, assemblage, or sum of particulars; as, a house is an
aggregate of stone, brick, timber, etc.

 In an aggregate the particulars are less intimately mixed than in a
compound.

2.  (Physics) A mass formed by the union of homogeneous particles; --
in distinction from a compound, formed by the union of heterogeneous
particles.

In the aggregate, collectively; together.

AGGREGATELY
Ag"gre*gate*ly, adv.

Defn: Collectively; in mass.

AGGREGATION
Ag`gre*ga"tion, n. [Cf. LL. aggregatio, F. agrégation.]

Defn: The act of aggregating, or the state of being aggregated;
collection into a mass or sum; a collection of particulars; an
aggregate.

Each genus is made up by aggregation of species.
Carpenter.

A nation is not an idea only of local extent and individual momentary
aggregation, but . . . of continuity, which extends in time as well
as in numbers, and in space.
Burke.

AGGREGATIVE
Ag"gre*ga*tive, a. [Cf. Fr. agrégatif.]

1. Taken together; collective.

2.  Gregarious; social. [R.] Carlyle.

AGGREGATOR
Ag"gre*ga`tor, n.

Defn: One who aggregates.

AGGREGE
Ag*grege", v. t. [OF. agreger. See Aggravate.]

Defn: To make heavy; to aggravate. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AGGRESS
Ag*gress", v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Aggressed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggressing.] [L. aggressus, p. p. of aggredi to go to, approach; ad +
gradi to step, go, gradus step: cf. OF. aggresser. See Grade.]

Defn: To commit the first act of hostility or offense; to begin a
quarrel or controversy; to make an attack; -- with on.

AGGRESS
Ag*gress", n. [L. aggressus.]

Defn: Aggression. [Obs.]

Their military aggresses on others.
Sir M. Hale.

AGGRESS
Ag*gress", v. t.

Defn: To set upon; to attack. [R.]

AGGRESSION
Ag*gres"sion, n. [L. aggressio, fr. aggredi: cf. F. agression.]

Defn: The first attack, or act of hostility; the first act of injury,
or first act leading to a war or a controversy; unprovoked attack;
assault; as, a war of aggression. "Aggressions of power."  Hallam

Syn. -- Attack; offense; intrusion; provocation.

AGGRESSIVE
Ag*gres"sive, a. [Cf. F. agressif.]

Defn: Tending or disposed to aggress; characterized by aggression;
making assaults; unjustly attacking; as, an aggressive policy, war,
person, nation. -- Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv. -- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n.

No aggressive movement was made.
Macaulay.

AGGRESSOR
Ag*gres"sor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. agresseur.]

Defn: The person who first attacks or makes an aggression; he who
begins hostility or a quarrel; an assailant.
The insolence of the aggressor is usually proportioned to the
tameness of the sufferer. Ames.

AGGRIEVANCE
Ag*griev"ance, n. Etym: [OF. agrevance, fr. agrever. See Aggrieve.]

Defn: Oppression; hardship; injury; grievance. [Archaic]

AGGRIEVE
Ag*grieve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggrieved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggrieving.] Etym: [OE. agreven, OF. agrever; a (L. ad) + grever to
burden, injure, L. gravare to weigh down, fr. gravis heavy. See
Grieve, and cf. Aggravate.]

Defn: To give pain or sorrow to; to afflict; hence, to oppress or
injure in one's rights; to bear heavily upon; -- now commonly used in
the passive TO be aggrieved.
Aggrieved by oppression and extortion. Macaulay.

AGGRIEVE
Ag*grieve", v. i.

Defn: To grieve; to lament. [Obs.]

AGGROUP
Ag*group", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aggrouped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aggrouping.] Etym: [F. agrouper; à (L. ad) + groupe group. See
Group..]

Defn: To bring together in a group; to group. Dryden.

AGGROUPMENT
Ag*group"ment, n.

Defn: Arrangement in a group or in groups; grouping.

AGGRY; AGGRI
Ag"gry, Ag"gri, a.

Defn: Applied to a kind of variegated glass beads of ancient
manufacture; as, aggry beads are found in Ashantee and Fantee in
Africa.

AGHAST
A*ghast", v. t.

Defn: See Agast, v. t. [Obs.]

AGHAST
A*ghast", a & p. p. Etym: [OE. agast, agasted, p. p. of agasten to
terrify, fr. AS. pref. a- (cf. Goth. us-, G. er-, orig. meaning out)
+ g to terrify, torment: cf. Goth. usgaisjan to terrify, primitively
to fix, to root to the spot with terror; akin to L. haerere to stick
fast, cling. See Gaze, Hesitate.]

Defn: Terrified; struck with amazement; showing signs of terror or
horror.
Aghast he waked; and, starting from his bed, Cold sweat in clammy
drops his limbs o'erspread. Dryden.
The commissioners read and stood aghast. Macaulay.

AGIBLE
Ag"i*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. agibilis, fr. L. agere to move, do.]

Defn: Possible to be done; practicable. [Obs.] "Fit for agible
things." Sir A. Sherley.

AGILE
Ag"ile, a. Etym: [F. agile, L. agilis, fr. agere to move. See Agent.]

Defn: Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or ready
to move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue.
Shaking it with agile hand. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Active; alert; nimble; brisk; lively; quick.

AGILELY
Ag"ile*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agile manner; nimbly.

AGILENESS
Ag"ile*ness, n.

Defn: Agility; nimbleness. [R.]

AGILITY
A*gil"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. agilié, L. agilitas, fr. agilis.]

1. The quality of being agile; the power of moving the limbs quickly
and easily; nimbleness; activity; quickness of motion; as, strength
and agility of body.
They . . . trust to the agility of their wit. Bacon.
Wheeling with the agility of a hawk. Sir W. Scott.

2. Activity; powerful agency. [Obs.]
The agility of the sun's fiery heat. Holland.

AGIO
Ag"i*o, n.; pl. Agios. Etym: [It. aggio exchange, discount, premium,
the same word as agio ease. See Ease.] (Com.)

Defn: The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it is
given in exchange for an inferior sort. The premium or discount on
foreign bills of exchange is sometimes called agio.

AGIOTAGE
Ag"i*o*tage, n. Etym: [F. agiotage, fr. agioter to practice
stockjobbing, fr. agio.]

Defn: Exchange business; also, stockjobbing; the maneuvers of
speculators to raise or lower the price of stocks or public funds.
Vanity and agiotage are to a Parisian the oxygen and hydrogen of
life. Landor.

AGIST
A*gist", v. t. Etym: [OF. agister; à (L. ad) + gister to assign a
lodging, fr. giste lodging, abode, F. gîte, LL. gistum, gista, fr. L.
jacitum, p. p. of jac to lie: cf. LL. agistare, adgistare. See Gist.]
(Law)

Defn: To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- used
originally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, and
collecting the money for the same. Blackstone.

AGISTATOR
Ag`is*ta"tor, n. Etym: [LL.]

Defn: See Agister.

AGISTER; AGISTOR
A*gist"er, A*gist"or, n. Etym: [Anglo-Norman agistour.] (Law)
(a) Formerly, an officer of the king's forest, who had the care of
cattle agisted, and collected the money for the same; -- hence called
gisttaker, which in England is corrupted into guest-taker.
(b) Now, one who agists or takes in cattle to pasture at a certain
rate; a pasturer. Mozley & W.

AGISTMENT
A*gist"ment, n. Etym: [OF. agistement. See Agist.] (Law)
(a) Formerly, the taking and feeding of other men's cattle in the
king's forests.
(b) The taking in by any one of other men's cattle to graze at a
certain rate. Mozley & W.
(c) The price paid for such feeding.
(d) A charge or rate against lands; as, an agistment of sea banks, i.
e., charge for banks or dikes.

AGITABLE
Ag"i*ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. agitabilis: cf. F. agitable.]

Defn: Capable of being agitated, or easily moved. [R.]

AGITATE
Ag"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Agitated; p. pr. & vb. n. Agitating.]
Etym: [L. agitatus, p. p. of agitare to put in motion, fr. agere to
move: cf. F. agiter. See Act, Agent.]

1. To move with a violent, irregular action; as, the wind agitates
the sea; to agitate water in a vessel. "Winds . . . agitate the air."
Cowper.

2. To move or actuate. [R.] Thomson.

3. To stir up; to disturb or excite; to perturb; as, he was greatly
agitated.
The mind of man is agitated by various passions. Johnson.

4. To discuss with great earnestness; to debate; as, a controversy
hotly agitated. Boyle.

5. To revolve in the mind, or view in all its aspects; to contrive
busily; to devise; to plot; as, politicians agitate desperate
designs.

Syn.
 -- To move; shake; excite; rouse; disturb; distract; revolve;
discuss; debate; canvass.

AGITATEDLY
Ag"i*ta`ted*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agitated manner.

AGITATION
Ag`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. agitatio: cf. F. agitation.]

1. The act of agitating, or the state of being agitated; the state of
being moved with violence, or with irregular action; commotion; as,
the sea after a storm is in agitation.

2. A stirring up or arousing; disturbance of tranquillity;
disturbance of mind which shows itself by physical excitement;
perturbation; as, to cause any one agitation.

3. Excitement of public feeling by discussion, appeals, etc.; as, the
antislavery agitation; labor agitation. "Religious agitations."
Prescott.

4. Examination or consideration of a subject in controversy, or of a
plan proposed for adoption; earnest discussion; debate.
A logical agitation of the matter. L'Estrange.
The project now in agitation. Swift.

Syn.
 -- Emotion; commotion; excitement; trepidation; tremor;
perturbation. See Emotion.

AGITATIVE
Ag"i*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to agitate.

AGITATO
A`gi*ta"to, a. Etym: [It., agitated.] (Med.)

Defn: Sung or played in a restless, hurried, and spasmodic manner.

AGITATOR
Ag"i*ta`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

1. One who agitates; one who stirs up or excites others; as,
political reformers and agitators.

2. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: One of a body of men appointed by the army, in Cromwell's time,
to look after their interests; -- called also adjutators. Clarendon.

3. An implement for shaking or mixing.

AGLEAM
A*gleam", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + gleam.]

Defn: Gleaming; as, faces agleam. Lowell.

AGLET; AIGLET
Ag"let, Aig"let, n. Etym: [F. aiguillette point, tagged point, dim.
of aiguilee needle, fr. LL. acucula for acicula, dim. of L. acus
needle, pinagleter to hook on. See Acute, and cf. Aiguillette.]

1. A tag of a lace or of the points, braids, or cords formerly used
in dress. They were sometimes formed into small images. Hence, "aglet
baby" (Shak.), an aglet image.

2. (Haberdashery)

Defn: A round white staylace. Beck.

AGLEY
A*gley", adv.

Defn: Aside; askew. [Scotch] Burns.

AGLIMMER
A*glim"mer, adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + glimmer.]

Defn: In a glimmering state. Hawthorne.

AGLITTER
A*glit"ter, adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + glitter.]

Defn: Clittering; in a glitter.

AGLOSSAL
A*glos"sal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without tongue; tongueless.

AGLOW
A*glow", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + glow.]

Defn: In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow.

AGLUTITION
Ag`lu*ti"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. a- not + L. glutire to swallow.]
(Med.)

Defn: Inability to swallow.

AGMINAL
Ag"mi*nal, a. Etym: [L. agminalis; agmen, agminis, a train.]

Defn: Pertaining to an army marching, or to a train. [R.]

AGMINATE; AGMINATED
Ag"mi*nate, Ag"mi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. agmen, agminis, a train,
crowd.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Grouped together; as, the agminated glands of Peyer in the
small intestine.

AGNAIL
Ag"nail, n. Etym: [AS. angnægl; ange vexation, trouble + nægel nail.
Cf. Hangnail.]

1. A corn on the toe or foot. [Obs.]

2. An inflammation or sore under or around the nail; also, a
hangnail.

AGNATE
Ag"nate, a. Etym: [L. agnatus, p. p. of agnasci to be born in
addition to; ad + nasci (for gnasci) to be born. Cf. Adnate.]

1. Related or akin by the father's side; also, sprung from the same
male ancestor.

2. Allied; akin. "Agnate words." Pownall.
Assume more or less of a fictitious character, but congenial and
agnate with the former. Landor.

AGNATE
Ag"nate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agnat.] (Civil Law)

Defn: A relative whose relationship can be traced exclusively through
males.

AGNATIC
Ag*nat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. agnatique.]

Defn: Pertaining to descent by the male line of ancestors. "The
agnatic succession." Blackstone.

AGNATION
Ag*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. agnatio: cf. F. agnation.]

1. (Civil Law)

Defn: Consanguinity by a line of males only, as distinguished from
cognation. Bouvier.

AGNITION
Ag*ni"tion, n. Etym: [L. agnitio, fr. agnoscere. See Notion.]

Defn: Acknowledgment. [Obs.] Grafton.

AGNIZE
Ag*nize", v. t. Etym: [Formed like recognize, fr. L. agnoscere.]

Defn: To recognize; to acknowledge. [Archaic]
I do agnize a natural and prompt alacrity. Shak.

AGNOIOLOGY
Ag`noi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The doctrine concerning those things of which we are
necessarily ignorant.

AGNOMEN
Ag*no"men, n. Etym: [L.; ad + nomen name.]

1. An additional or fourth name given by the Romans, or account of
some remarkable exploit or event; as, Publius Caius Scipio Africanus.

2. An additional name, or an epithet appended to a name; as,
Aristides the Just.

AGNOMINATE
Ag*nom"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To name. [Obs.]

AGNOMINATION
Ag*nom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. agnominatio. See Agnomen.]

1. A surname. [R.] Minsheu.

2. Paronomasia; also, alliteration; annomination.

AGNOSTIC
Ag*nos"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Professing ignorance; involving no dogmatic; pertaining to or
involving agnosticism.
 -- Ag*nos"tic*al*ly, adv.

AGNOSTIC
Ag*nos"tic, n.

Defn: One who professes ignorance, or denies that we have any
knowledge, save of phenomena; one who supports agnosticism, neither
affirming nor denying the existence of a personal Deity, a future
life, etc.

AGNOSTICISM
Ag*nos"ti*cism, n.

Defn: That doctrine which, professing ignorance, neither asserts nor
denies. Specifically: (Theol.)

Defn: The doctrine that the existence of a personal Deity, an unseen
world, etc., can be neither proved nor disproved, because of the
necessary limits of the human mind (as sometimes charged upon
Hamilton and Mansel), or because of the insufficiency of the evidence
furnished by physical and physical data, to warrant a positive
conclusion (as taught by the school of Herbert Spencer); -- opposed
alike dogmatic skepticism and to dogmatic theism.

AGNUS
Ag"nus, n.; pl. E. Agnuses; L. Agni. Etym: [L., a lamb.]

Defn: Agnus Dei.

AGNUS CASTUS
Ag"nus cas"tus. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Vitex (V. agnus castus); the chaste tree. Loudon.
And wreaths of agnus castus others bore. Dryden.

AGNUS DEI
Ag"nus De"i. Etym: [L., lamb of God.] (R. C. Ch.)
(a) A figure of a lamb bearing a cross or flag.
(b) A cake of wax stamped with such a figure. It is made from the
remains of the paschal candles and blessed by the Pope.
(c) A triple prayer in the sacrifice of the Mass, beginning with the
words "Agnus Dei."

AGNUS SCYTHICUS
Ag"nus Scyth"i*cus. [L., Scythian lamb.] (Bot.)

Defn: The Scythian lamb, a kind of woolly-skinned rootstock. See
Barometz.

AGO
A*go", a. & adv. Etym: [OE. ago, agon, p. p. of agon to go away, pass
by, AS. agan to pass away; a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger. er-, orig. meaning
out) + gan to go. See Go.]

Defn: Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago.

AGOG
A*gog", a. & adv. Etym: [Cf. F. gogue fun, perhaps of Celtic origin.]

Defn: In eager desire; eager; astir.
All agog to dash through thick and thin. Cowper.

AGOING
A*go"ing, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + p. pr. of go.]

Defn: In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing.

AGON
Ag"on, n.; pl. Agones. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A contest for a prize at the public games.

AGONE
A*gone", a. & adv.

Defn: Ago. [Archaic. & Poet.]
Three days agone I fell sick. 1 Sam. xxx. 13.

AGONE
A"gone, n. Etym: [See Agonic.]

Defn: Agonic line.

AGONIC
A*gon"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Not forming an angle. Agonic line (Physics), an imaginary line
on the earth's surface passing through those places where the
magnetic needle points to the true north; the line of no magnetic
variation. There is one such line in the Western hemisphere, and
another in the Eastern hemisphere.

AGONISM
Ag"o*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. Agon.]

Defn: Contention for a prize; a contest. [Obs.] Blount.

AGONIST
Ag"o*nist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who contends for the prize in public games. [R.]

AGONISTIC; AGONISTICAL
Ag`o*nis"tic, Ag`o*nis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Agonism.]

Defn: Pertaining to violent contests, bodily or mental; pertaining to
athletic or polemic feats; athletic; combative; hence, strained;
unnatural.
As a scholar, he [Dr. Parr] was brilliant, but he consumed his power
in agonistic displays. De Quincey.

AGONISTICALLY
Ag`o*nis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agonistic manner.

AGONISTICS
Ag`o*nis"tics, n.

Defn: The science of athletic combats, or contests in public games.

AGONIZE
Ag"o*nize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Agonized; p. pr. & vb. n. Agonizing.]
Etym: [F. agoniser, LL. agonizare, fr. Gr. Agony.]

1. To writhe with agony; to suffer violent anguish.
To smart and agonize at every pore. Pope.

2. To struggle; to wrestle; to strive desperately.

AGONIZE
Ag"o*nize, v. t.

Defn: To cause to suffer agony; to subject to extreme pain; to
torture.
He agonized his mother by his behavior. Thackeray.

AGONIZINGLY
Ag"o*ni`zing*ly, adv.

Defn: With extreme anguish or desperate struggles.

AGONOTHETE
Ag"o*no*thete`, n. Etym: [Gr. [Antiq.]

Defn: An officer who presided over the great public games in Greece.

AGONOTHETIC
Ag`o*no*thet"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the office of an agonothete.

AGONY
Ag"o*ny, n.; pl. Agonies. Etym: [L. agonia, Gr. agonie. See
Agon.]Etym:

1. Violent contest or striving.
The world is convulsed by the agonies of great nations. Macaulay.

2. Pain so extreme as to cause writhing or contortions of the body,
similar to those made in the athletic contests in Greece; and hence,
extreme pain of mind or body; anguish; paroxysm of grief;
specifically, the sufferings of Christ in the garden of Gethsemane.
Being in an agony he prayed more earnestly. Luke xxii. 44.

3. Paroxysm of joy; keen emotion.
With cries and agonies of wild delight. Pope.

4. The last struggle of life; death struggle.

Syn.
 -- Anguish; torment; throe; distress; pangs; suffering.
 -- Agony, Anguish, Pang. These words agree in expressing extreme
pain of body or mind. Agony denotes acute and permanent pain, usually
of the whole system., and often producing contortions. Anguish
denotes severe pressure, and, considered as bodily suffering, is more
commonly local (as anguish of a wound), thus differing from agony. A
pang is a paroxysm of excruciating pain. It is severe and transient.
The agonies or pangs of remorse; the anguish of a wounded conscience.
"Oh, sharp convulsive pangs of agonizing pride!" Dryden.

A-GOOD
A-good(#), adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + good.]

Defn: In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood." Shak.

AGOOD
A*good(a*good"), adv. [Pref. a-+ good.]

Defn: In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood."  Shak.

AGORA
Ag"o*ra, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially the
market place, in an ancient Greek city.

AGOUARA
A*gou"a*ra, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The crab-eating raccoon (Procyon cancrivorus), found in the
tropical parts of America.

AGOUTA
A*gou"ta, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus), allied to
the moles, found only in Hayti.

AGOUTI; AGOUTY
A*gou"ti, A*gou"ty, n. Etym: [F. agouti, acouti, Sp. aguti, fr.
native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rodent of the genus Dasyprocta, about the size of a rabbit,
peculiar to South America and the West Indies. The most common
species is the Dasyprocta agouti.

AGRACE
A*grace", n. & v.

Defn: See Aggrace. [Obs.]

AGRAFFE
A*graffe", n. Etym: [F. agrafe, formerly agraffe, OF. agrappe. See
Agrappes.]

1. A hook or clasp.
The feather of an ostrich, fastened in her turban by an agraffe set
with brilliants. Sir W. Scott.

2. A hook, eyelet, or other device by which a piano wire is so held
as to limit the vibration.

AGRAMMATIST
A*gram"ma*tist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A illiterate person. [Obs.] Bailey.

AGRAPHIA
A*graph"i*a, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The absence or loss of the power of expressing ideas by written
signs. It is one form of aphasia.

AGRAPHIC
A*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Characterized by agraphia.

AGRAPPES
A*grappes", n. pl. Etym: [OF. agrappe, F. agrafe; a + grappe (see
Grape) fr. OHG. krapfo hook.]

Defn: Hooks and eyes for armor, etc. Fairholt.

AGRARIAN
A*gra"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. agrarius, fr. ager field.]

1. Pertaining to fields, or lands, or their tenure; esp., relating to
am equal or equitable division of lands; as, the agrarian laws of
Rome, which distributed the conquered and other public lands among
citizens.
His Grace's landed possessions are irresistibly inviting to an
agrarian experiment. Burke.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Wild; -- said of plants growing in the fields.

AGRARIAN
A*gra"ri*an, n.

1. One in favor of an equal division of landed property.

2. An agrarian law. [R.]
An equal agrarian is perpetual law. Harrington.

AGRARIANISM
A*gra"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: An equal or equitable division of landed property; the
principles or acts of those who favor a redistribution of land.

AGRARIANIZE
A*gra"ri*an*ize, v. t.

Defn: To distribute according to, or to imbue with, the principles of
agrarianism.

AGRE; AGREE
A*gre", A*gree", adv. Etym: [F. à gré. See Agree.]

Defn: In good part; kindly. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

AGREE
A*gree", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Agreed; p. pr. & vb. n. Agreeing.] Etym:
[F. agréer to accept or receive kindly, fr. à gré; à (L. ad) + gré
good will, consent, liking, fr. L. gratus pleasing, agreeable. See
Grateful.]

1. To harmonize in opinion, statement, or action; to be in unison or
concord; to be or become united or consistent; to concur; as, all
parties agree in the expediency of the law.
If music and sweet poetry agree. Shak.
Their witness agreed not together. Mark xiv. 56.
The more you agree together, the less hurt can your enemies do you.
Sir T. Browne.

2. To yield assent; to accede; -- followed by to; as, to agree to an
offer, or to opinion.

3. To make a stipulation by way of settling differences or
determining a price; to exchange promises; to come to terms or to a
common resolve; to promise.
Agree with thine adversary quickly. Matt. v. 25.
Didst not thou agree with me for a penny Matt. xx. 13.

4. To be conformable; to resemble; to coincide; to correspond; as,
the picture does not agree with the original; the two scales agree
exactly.

5. To suit or be adapted in its effects; to do well; as, the same
food does not agree with every constitution.

6. (Gram.)

Defn: To correspond in gender, number, case, or person.

Note: The auxiliary forms of to be are often employed with the
participle agreed. "The jury were agreed." Macaulay. "Can two walk
together, except they be agreed " Amos iii. 3. The principal
intransitive uses were probably derived from the transitive verb used
reflexively. "I agree me well to your desire." Ld. Berners.

Syn.
 -- To assent; concur; consent; acquiesce; accede; engage; promise;
stipulate; contract; bargain; correspond; harmonize; fit; tally;
coincide; comport.

AGREE
A*gree", v. t.

1. To make harmonious; to reconcile or make friends. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To admit, or come to one mind concerning; to settle; to arrange;
as, to agree the fact; to agree differences. [Obs.]

AGREEABILITY
A*gree`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [OF. agreablete.]

1. Easiness of disposition. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. The quality of being, or making one's self, agreeable;
agreeableness. Thackeray.

AGREEABLE
A*gree"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. agréable.]

1. Pleasing, either to the mind or senses; pleasant; grateful; as,
agreeable manners or remarks; an agreeable person; fruit agreeable to
the taste.
A train of agreeable reveries. Goldsmith.

2. Willing; ready to agree or consent. [Colloq.]
These Frenchmen give unto the said captain of Calais a great sum of
money, so that he will be but content and agreeable that they may
enter into the said town. Latimer.

3. Agreeing or suitable; conformable; correspondent; concordant;
adapted; -- followed by to, rarely by with.
That which is agreeable to the nature of one thing, is many times
contrary to the nature of another. L'Estrange.

4. In pursuance, conformity, or accordance; -- in this sense used
adverbially for agreeably; as, agreeable to the order of the day, the
House took up the report.

Syn.
 -- Pleasing; pleasant; welcome; charming; acceptable; amiable. See
Pleasant.

AGREEABLENESS
A*gree"a*ble*ness, n.

1. The quality of being agreeable or pleasing; that quality which
gives satisfaction or moderate pleasure to the mind or senses.
That author . . . has an agreeableness that charms us. Pope.

2. The quality of being agreeable or suitable; suitableness or
conformity; consistency.
The agreeableness of virtuous actions to human nature. Pearce.

3. Resemblance; concordance; harmony; -- with to or between. [Obs.]
The agreeableness between man and the other parts of the universe.
Grew.

AGREEABLY
A*gree"a*bly, adv.

1. In an agreeably manner; in a manner to give pleasure; pleasingly.
"Agreeably entertained." Goldsmith.

2. In accordance; suitably; consistently; conformably; -- followed by
to and rarely by with. See Agreeable, 4.
The effect of which is, that marriages grow less frequent, agreeably
to the maxim above laid down. Paley.

3. Alike; similarly. [Obs.]
Both clad in shepherds' weeds agreeably. Spenser.

AGREEINGLY
A*gree"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In an agreeing manner (to); correspondingly; agreeably. [Obs.]

AGREEMENT
A*gree"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. agrément.]

1. State of agreeing; harmony of opinion, statement, action, or
character; concurrence; concord; conformity; as, a good agreement
subsists among the members of the council.
What agreement hath the temple of God with idols 2 Cor. vi. 16.
Expansion and duration have this further agreement. Locke.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Concord or correspondence of one word with another in gender,
number, case, or person.

3. (Law)
(a) A concurrence in an engagement that something shall be done or
omitted; an exchange of promises; mutual understanding, arrangement,
or stipulation; a contract.
(b) The language, oral or written, embodying reciprocal promises.
Abbott. Brande & C.

Syn.
 -- Bargain; contract; compact; stipulation.

AGREER
A*gre"er, n.

Defn: One who agrees.

AGRESTIC
A*gres"tic, a. Etym: [L. agrestis, fr. ager field.]

Defn: Pertaining to fields or the country, in opposition to the city;
rural; rustic; unpolished; uncouth. "Agrestic behavior." Gregory.

AGRESTICAL
A*gres"tic*al, a.

Defn: Agrestic. [Obs.]

AGRICOLATION
A*gric`o*la"tion, n. Etym: [L., agricolatio.]

Defn: Agriculture. [Obs.] Bailey.

AGRICOLIST
A*gric"o*list, n.

Defn: A cultivator of the soil; an agriculturist. Dodsley.

AGRICULTOR
Ag"ri*cul`tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. ager field + cultor cultivator.]

Defn: An agriculturist; a farmer. [R.]

AGRICULTURAL
Ag`ri*cul"tur*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to agriculture; connected with, or engaged in,
tillage; as, the agricultural class; agricultural implements, wages,
etc.
 -- Ag`ri*cul"tur*al*ly, adv. Agricultural ant (Zoöl.), a species of
ant which gathers and stores seeds of grasses, for food. The
remarkable species (Myrmica barbata) found in Texas clears circular
areas and carefully cultivates its favorite grain, known as ant rice.

AGRICULTURALIST
Ag`ri*cul"tur*al*ist, n.

Defn: An agriculturist (which is the preferred form.)

AGRICULTURE
Ag"ri*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. agricultura; ager field + cultura
cultivation: cf. F. agriculture. See Acre and Culture.]

Defn: The art or science of cultivating the ground, including the
harvesting of crops, and the rearing and management of live stock;
tillage; husbandry; farming.

AGRICULTURISM
Ag`ri*cul"tur*ism, n.

Defn: Agriculture. [R.]

AGRICULTURIST
Ag`ri*cul"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One engaged or skilled in agriculture; a husbandman.
The farmer is always a practitioner, the agriculturist may be a mere
theorist. Crabb.

AGRIEF
A*grief", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + grief.]

Defn: In grief; amiss. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AGRIMONY
Ag"ri*mo*ny, n. Etym: [OE. agremoyne, OF. aigremoine, L. agrimonia
for argemonia, fr. Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A genus of plants of the Rose family.
(b) The name is also given to various other plants; as, hemp agrimony
(Eupatorium cannabinum); water agrimony (Bidens).

Note: The Agrimonia eupatoria, or common agrimony, a perennial herb
with a spike of yellow flowers, was once esteemed as a medical
remedy, but is now seldom used.

AGRIN
A*grin", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + grin.]

Defn: In the act of grinning. "His visage all agrin." Tennyson.

AGRIOLOGIST
Ag`ri*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed or engaged in agriology.

AGRIOLOGY
Ag`ri*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Description or comparative study of the customs of savage or
uncivilized tribes.

AGRISE
A*grise", v. i. Etym: [AS. agrisan to dread; a- (cf. Goth. us-, Ger.
er-, orig. meaning out) + grisan, for gr (only in comp.), akin to
OHG. gr, G. grausen, to shudder. See Grisly.]

Defn: To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AGRISE
A*grise", v. t.

1. To shudder at; to abhor; to dread; to loathe. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. To terrify; to affright. [Obs.]
His manly face that did his foes agrise. Spenser.

AGROM
A"grom, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the East
Indies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves.

AGRONOMIC; AGRONOMICAL
Ag`ro*nom"ic, Ag`ro*nom"ic*al, Etym: [Cf. F. agronomique.]

Defn: Pertaining to agronomy, of the management of farms.

AGRONOMICS
Ag`ro*nom"ics, n.

Defn: The science of the distribution and management of land.

AGRONOMIST
A*gron"o*mist, n.

Defn: One versed in agronomy; a student of agronomy.

AGRONOMY
A*gron"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. agronomie.]

Defn: The management of land; rural economy; agriculture.

AGROPE
A*grope", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + grope.]

Defn: In the act of groping. Mrs. Browning.

AGROSTIS
A*gros"tis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: A genus of grasses, including species called in common language
bent grass. Some of them, as redtop (Agrostis vulgaris), are valuable
pasture grasses.

AGROSTOGRAPHIC; AGROSTOGRAPHICAL
A*gros`to*graph"ic, A*gros`to*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
agrostographique.]

Defn: Pertaining to agrostography.

AGROSTOGRAPHY
Ag`ros*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of the grasses.

AGROSTOLOGIC; AGROSTOLOGICAL
A*gros`to*log"ic, A*gros`to*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to agrostology.

AGROSTOLOGIST
Ag`ros*tol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in agrostology.

AGROSTOLOGY
Ag`ros*tol"ogy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of botany which treats of the grasses.

AGROTECHNY
Ag"ro*tech`ny, n. [Gr.   field, land +  an art.]

Defn: That branch of agriculture dealing with the methods of
conversion of agricultural products into manufactured articles;
agricultural technology.

AGROUND
A*ground", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + ground.]

Defn: On the ground; stranded; -- a nautical term applied to a ship
when its bottom lodges on the ground. Totten.

AGROUPMENT
A*group"ment, n.

Defn: See Aggroupment.

AGRYPNOTIC
Ag`ryp*not"ic, n. Etym: [Gr. agrypnotique.]

Defn: Anything which prevents sleep, or produces wakefulness, as
strong tea or coffee.

AGUARDIENTE
A`guar*di*en"te, n. Etym: [Sp., contr. of agua ardiente burning water
(L. aqua water + ardens burning).]

1. A inferior brandy of Spain and Portugal.

2. A strong alcoholic drink, especially pulque. [Mexico and Spanish
America.]

AGUE
A"gue, n. Etym: [OE. agu, ague, OF. agu, F. aigu, sharp, OF. fem.
ague, LL. (febris) acuta, a sharp, acute fever, fr. L. acutus sharp.
See Acute.]

1. An acute fever. [Obs.] "Brenning agues." P. Plowman.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An intermittent fever, attended by alternate cold and hot fits.

3. The cold fit or rigor of the intermittent fever; as, fever and
ague.

4. A chill, or state of shaking, as with cold. Dryden. Ague cake, an
enlargement of the spleen produced by ague.
 -- Ague drop, a solution of the arsenite of potassa used for ague.
 -- Ague fit, a fit of the ague. Shak.
 -- Ague spell, a spell or charm against ague. Gay.
 -- Ague tree, the sassafras, -- sometimes so called from the use of
its root formerly, in cases of ague. [Obs.]

AGUE
A"gue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Agued.]

Defn: To strike with an ague, or with a cold fit. Heywood.

AGUILT
A*guilt", v. t.

Defn: To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

AGUISE
A*guise", n.

Defn: Dress. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

AGUISE
A*guise", v. t. Etym: [Pref a- + guise.]

Defn: To dress; to attire; to adorn. [Obs.]
Above all knights ye goodly seem aguised. Spenser.

AGUISH
A"gu*ish, a.

1. Having the qualities of an ague; somewhat cold or shivering;
chilly; shaky.
Her aguish love now glows and burns. Granville.

2. Productive of, or affected by, ague; as, the aguish districts of
England. T. Arnold. A"gu*ish*ness, n.

AGUSH
A*gush", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + gush.]

Defn: In a gushing state. Hawthorne.

AGYNOUS
Ag"y*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Without female organs; male.

AH
Ah, interj. Etym: [OE. a: cf. OF. a, F. ah, L. ah, Gr. a, Icel. æ,
OHG. a, Lith. á, á\'a0.]

Defn: An exclamation, expressive of surprise, pity, complaint,
entreaty, contempt, threatening, delight, triumph, etc., according to
the manner of utterance.

AHA
A*ha", interj. Etym: [Ah, interj. + ha.]

Defn: An exclamation expressing, by different intonations, triumph,
mixed with derision or irony, or simple surprise.

AHA
A*ha", n.

Defn: A sunk fence. See Ha-ha. Mason.

AHEAD
A*head", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + head.]

1. In or to the front; in advance; onward.
The island bore but a little ahead of us. Fielding.

2. Headlong; without restraint. [Obs.] L'Estrange. To go ahead. (a)
To go in advance. (b) To go on onward. (c) To push on in an
enterprise. [Colloq] -- To get ahead of. (a) To get in advance of.
(b) To surpass; to get the better of. [Colloq.]

AHEAP
A*heap", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + heap.]

Defn: In a heap; huddled together. Hood.

AHEIGHT
A*height", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + height.]

Defn: Aloft; on high. [Obs.] "Look up aheight." Shak.

AHEM
A*hem", interj.

Defn: An exclamation to call one's attention; hem.

AHEY
A*hey", interj.

Defn: Hey; ho.

AHIGH
A*high", adv.

Defn: On high. [Obs.] Shak.

AHOLD
A*hold", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + hold.]

Defn: Near the wind; as, to lay a ship ahold. [Obs.] Shak.

AHORSEBACK
A*horse"back, adv.

Defn: On horseback.
Two suspicious fellows ahorseback. Smollet.

AHOY
A*hoy", interj. Etym: [OE. a, interj. + hoy.] (Naut.)

Defn: A term used in hailing; as, "Ship ahoy."

AHRIMAN
Ah"ri*man, n. Etym: [Per.]

Defn: The Evil Principle or Being of the ancient Persians; the Prince
of Darkness as opposer to Ormuzd, the King of Light.

AHU
A"hu, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Asiatic gazelle.

AHULL
A*hull", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + hull.] (Naut.)

Defn: With the sails furled, and the helm lashed alee; -- applied to
ships in a storm. See Hull, n.

AHUNGERED
A*hun"gered, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + hungered.]

Defn: Pinched with hunger; very hungry. C. Bronté.

AI
A"i, n.; pl. Ais. Etym: [Braz. aï, haï, from the animal's cry: cf. F.
aï.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The three-toed sloth (Bradypus tridactylus) of South America.
See Sloth.

AIBLINS; ABLINS
Ai"blins, A"blins, adv. Etym: [See Able.]

Defn: Perhaps; possibly. [Scotch] Burns.

AICH'S METAL
Aich's met"al.

Defn: A kind of gun metal, containing copper, zinc, and iron, but no
tin.

AID
Aid, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aided; p. pr. & vb. n. Aiding.] Etym: [F.
aider, OF. aidier, fr. L. adjutare to help, freq. of adjuvare to
help; ad + juvare to help. Cf. Adjutant.]

Defn: To support, either by furnishing strength or means in
coöperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; to
help; to assist.
You speedy helpers . . . Appear and aid me in this enterprise. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To help; assist; support; sustain; succor; relieve; befriend;
coöperate; promote. See Help.

AID
Aid, n. Etym: [F. aide, OF. aïde, aïe, fr. the verb. See Aid, v. t.]

1. Help; succor; assistance; relief.
An unconstitutional mode of obtaining aid. Hallam.

2. The person or thing that promotes or helps in something done; a
helper; an assistant.
It is not good that man should be alone; let us make unto him an aid
like unto himself. Tobit viii. 6.

3. (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: A subsidy granted to the king by Parliament; also, an exchequer
loan.

4. (Feudal Law)

Defn: A pecuniary tribute paid by a vassal to his lord on special
occasions. Blackstone.

5. An aid-de-camp, so called by abbreviation; as, a general's aid.
Aid prayer (Law), a proceeding by which a defendant beseeches and
claims assistance from some one who has a further or more permanent
interest in the matter in suit.
 -- To pray in aid, to beseech and claim such assistance.

AIDANCE
Aid"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aidance.]

Defn: Aid. [R.]
Aidance 'gainst the enemy. Shak.

AIDANT
Aid"ant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aidant, p. pr. of aider to help.]

Defn: Helping; helpful; supplying aid. Shak.

AID-DE-CAMP
Aid"-de-camp`, n.; pl. Aids-de-camp.. Etym: [F. aide de camp
(literally) camp assistant.] (Mil.)

Defn: An officer selected by a general to carry orders, also to
assist or represent him in correspondence and in directing movements.

AIDER
Aid"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, aids.

AIDFUL
Aid"ful, a.

Defn: Helpful. [Archaic.] Bp. Hall.

AIDLESS
Aid"less, a.

Defn: Helpless; without aid. Milton.

AID-MAJOR
Aid"-ma`jor, n.

Defn: The adjutant of a regiment.

AIEL
Ai"el, n.

Defn: See Ayle. [Obs.]

AIGLET
Aig"let, n.

Defn: Same as Aglet.

AIGRE
Ai"gre, a. Etym: [F. See Eager.]

Defn: Sour. [Obs.] Shak.

AIGREMORE
Ai"gre*more, n. Etym: [F. origin unknown.]

Defn: Charcoal prepared for making powder.

AIGRET; AIGRETTE
Ai"gret, Ai*grette, n. Etym: [F., a sort of white heron, with a tuft
of feathers on its head; a tuft of feathers; dim. of the same word as
heron. See Heron, and cf. Egret, Egrette.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The small white European heron. See Egret.

2. A plume or tuft for the head composed of feathers, or of gems,
etc. Prescott.

3. A tuft like that of the egret. (Bot.)

Defn: A feathery crown of seed; egret; as, the aigrette or down of
the dandelion or the thistle.

AIGUILLE
Ai`guille", n. Etym: [F., a needle. See Aglet.]

1. A needle-shaped peak.

2. An instrument for boring holes, used in blasting.

AIGUILLETTE
Ai`guil*lette", n. Etym: [F. See Aglet.]

1. A point or tag at the end of a fringe or lace; an aglet.

2. One of the ornamental tags, cords, or loops on some military and
naval uniforms.

AIGULET
Ai"gu*let, n.

Defn: See Aglet. Spenser.

AIL
Ail, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ailing.] Etym: [OE.
eilen, ailen, AS. eglan to trouble, pain; akin to Goth. us-agljan to
distress, agls troublesome, irksome, aglo, aglitha, pain, and prob.
to E. awe.

Defn: To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental;
to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasiness
or affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man I know
not what ails him.
What aileth thee, Hagar Gen. xxi. 17.

Note: It is never used to express a specific disease. We do not say,
a fever ails him; but, something ails him.

AIL
Ail, v. i.

Defn: To be affected with pain or uneasiness of any sort; to be ill
or indisposed or in trouble.
When he ails ever so little . . . he is so peevish. Richardson.

AIL
Ail, n.

Defn: Indisposition or morbid affection. Pope.

AILANTHUS
Ai*lan"thus, n.

Defn: Same as Ailantus.

AILANTUS
Ai*lan"tus, n. Etym: [From aylanto, i. e., tree of heaven, the name
of the tree in the Moluccas.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of beautiful trees, natives of the East Indies. The
tree imperfectly di

AILERON
Ai"le*ron, n. [F., dim. of aile wing.]

1.

Defn: A half gable, as at the end of a penthouse or of the aisle of a
church.

2.  (Aëronautics) A small plane or surface capable of being
manipulated by the pilot of a flying machine to preserve or destroy
lateral balance; a hinged wing tip; a lateral stabilizing or
balancing plane.

AILETTE
Ai*lette, n. Etym: [F. ailette, dim. of aile wing, L. ala.]

Defn: A small square shield, formerly worn on the shoulders of
knights, -- being the prototype of the modern epaulet. Fairholt.

AILMENT
Ail"ment, n.

Defn: Indisposition; morbid affection of the body; -- not applied
ordinarily to acute diseases. "Little ailments." Landsdowne.

AILUROIDEA
Ai`lu*roid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of the Carnivora, which includes the cats, civets, and
hyenas.

AIM
Aim, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Aimed; p. pr. & vb. n. Aiming.] Etym: [OE.
amen, aimen, eimen, to guess at, to estimate, to aim, OF. esmer,
asmer, fr. L. aestimare to estimate; or perh. fr. OF. aesmer; ad) +
esmer. See Estimate.]

1. To point or direct a missile weapon, or a weapon which propels as
missile, towards an object or spot with the intent of hitting it; as,
to aim at a fox, or at a target.

2. To direct the indention or purpose; to attempt the accomplishment
of a purpose; to try to gain; to endeavor; -- followed by at, or by
an infinitive; as, to aim at distinction; to aim to do well.
Aim'st thou at princes Pope.

3. To guess or conjecture. [Obs.] Shak.

AIM
Aim, v. t.

Defn: To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; to
direct, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against an
object; as, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist or a blow (at
something); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice).

AIM
Aim, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. esme estimation, fr. esmer. See Aim, v. i.]

1. The pointing of a weapon, as a gun, a dart, or an arrow, in the
line of direction with the object intended to be struck; the line of
fire; the direction of anything, as a spear, a blow, a discourse, a
remark, towards a particular point or object, with a view to strike
or affect it.
Each at the head leveled his deadly aim. Milton.

2. The point intended to be hit, or object intended to be attained or
affected.
To be the aim of every dangerous shot. Shak.

3. Intention; purpose; design; scheme.
How oft ambitious aims are crossed! Pope.

4. Conjecture; guess. [Obs.]
What you would work me to, I have some aim. Shak.
To cry aim (Archery), to encourage. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- End; object; scope; drift; design; purpose; intention; scheme;
tendency; aspiration.

AIMER
Aim"er, n.

Defn: One who aims, directs, or points.

AIMLESS
Aim"less, a.

Defn: Without aim or purpose; as, an aimless life.
 -- Aim"less*ly, adv.
 -- Aim"less*ness, n.

AINO
Ai"no, n. Etym: [Said to be the native name for man.]

Defn: One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islands
etc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposed
to have been the progenitors of the Japanese. The Ainos are stout and
short, with hairy bodies.

AIN'T
Ain't.

Defn: A contraction for are not and am not; also used for is not.
[Colloq. or llliterate speech]. See An't.

AIR
Air, n. Etym: [OE. air, eir, F. air, L. aër, fr. Gr. wind. In sense
10 the French has taking a meaning fr. It. aria atmosphere, air, fr.
the same Latin word; and in senses 11, 12, 13 the French meaning is
either fr. L. aria, or due to confusion with F. aire, in an older
sense of origin, descent. Cf. A, Debonair, Malaria, Wind.]

1. The fluid which we breathe, and which surrounds the earth; the
atmosphere. It is invisible, inodorous, insipid, transparent,
compressible, elastic, and ponderable.

Note: By the ancient philosophers, air was regarded as an element;
but modern science has shown that it is essentially a mixture of
oxygen and nitrogen, with a small amount of carbon dioxide, the
average proportions being, by volume: oxygen, 20.96 per cent.;
nitrogen, 79.00 per cent.; carbon dioxide, 0.04 per cent. These
proportions are subject to a very slight variability. Air also always
contains some vapor of water.

2. Symbolically: Something unsubstantial, light, or volatile. "Charm
ache with air." Shak.
He was still all air and fire. Macaulay
. [Air and fire being the finer and quicker elements as opposed to
earth and water.]

3. A particular state of the atmosphere, as respects heat, cold,
moisture, etc., or as affecting the sensations; as, a smoky air, a
damp air, the morning air, etc.

4. Any aëriform body; a gas; as, oxygen was formerly called vital
air. [Obs.]

5. Air in motion; a light breeze; a gentle wind.
Let vernal airs through trembling osiers play. Pope.

6. Odoriferous or contaminated air.

7. That which surrounds and influences.
The keen, the wholesome air of poverty. Wordsworth.

8. Utterance abroad; publicity; vent.
You gave it air before me. Dryden.

9. Intelligence; information. [Obs.] Bacon.

10. (Mus.)
(a) A musical idea, or motive, rhythmically developed in consecutive
single tones, so as to form a symmetrical and balanced whole, which
may be sung by a single voice to the stanzas of a hymn or song, or
even to plain prose, or played upon an instrument; a melody; a tune;
an aria.
(b) In harmonized chorals, psalmody, part songs, etc., the part which
bears the tune or melody -- in modern harmony usually the upper part
-- is sometimes called the air.

11. The peculiar look, appearance, and bearing of a person; mien;
demeanor; as, the air of a youth; a heavy air; a lofty air. "His very
air." Shak.

12. Peculiar appearance; apparent character; semblance; manner;
style.
It was communicated with the air of a secret. Pope.

12. pl.

Defn: An artificial or affected manner; show of pride or vanity;
haughtiness; as, it is said of a person, he puts on airs. Thackeray.

14. (Paint.)
(a) The representation or reproduction of the effect of the
atmospheric medium through which every object in nature is viewed.
New Am. Cyc.
(b) Carriage; attitude; action; movement; as, the head of that
portrait has a good air. Fairholt.

15. (Man.)

Defn: The artificial motion or carriage of a horse.

Note: Air is much used adjectively or as the first part of a compound
term. In most cases it might be written indifferently, as a separate
limiting word, or as the first element of the compound term, with or
without the hyphen; as, air bladder, air-bladder, or airbladder; air
cell, air-cell, or aircell; air-pump, or airpump. Air balloon. See
Balloon.
 -- Air bath. (a) An apparatus for the application of air to the
body. (b) An arrangement for drying substances in air of any desired
temperature.
 -- Air castle. See Castle in the air, under Castle.
 -- Air compressor, a machine for compressing air to be used as a
motive power.
 -- Air crossing, a passage for air in a mine.
 -- Air cushion, an air-tight cushion which can be inflated; also, a
device for arresting motion without shock by confined air.
 -- Air fountain, a contrivance for producing a jet of water by the
force of compressed air.
 -- Air furnace, a furnace which depends on a natural draft and not
on blast.
 -- Air line, a straight line; a bee line. Hence Air-line, adj.; as,
air-line road.
 -- Air lock (Hydr. Engin.), an intermediate chamber between the
outer air and the compressed-air chamber of a pneumatic caisson.
Knight.
 -- Air port (Nav.), a scuttle or porthole in a ship to admit air.
 -- Air spring, a spring in which the elasticity of air is utilized.
 -- Air thermometer, a form of thermometer in which the contraction
and expansion of air is made to measure changes of temperature.
 -- Air threads, gossamer.
 -- Air trap, a contrivance for shutting off foul air or gas from
drains, sewers, etc.; a stench trap.
 -- Air trunk, a pipe or shaft for conducting foul or heated air from
a room.
 -- Air valve, a valve to regulate the admission or egress of air;
esp. a valve which opens inwardly in a steam boiler and allows air to
enter.
 -- Air way, a passage for a current of air; as the air way of an air
pump; an air way in a mine.
 -- In the air. (a) Prevalent without traceable origin or authority,
as rumors. (b) Not in a fixed or stable position; unsettled. (c)
(Mil.) Unsupported and liable to be turned or taken in flank; as, the
army had its wing in the air.
 -- To take air, to be divulged; to be made public.
 -- To take the air, to go abroad; to walk or ride out.

AIR
Air, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aired; p. pr. & vb. n. Airing.] Etym: [See
Air, n., and cf. A.]

1. To expose to the air for the purpose of cooling, refreshing, or
purifying; to ventilate; as, to air a room.
It were good wisdom . . . that the jail were aired. Bacon.
Were you but riding forth to air yourself. Shak.

2. To expose for the sake of public notice; to display
ostentatiously; as, to air one's opinion.
Airing a snowy hand and signet gem. Tennyson.

3. To expose to heat, for the purpose of expelling dampness, or of
warming; as, to air linen; to air liquors.

AIR BED
Air" bed`.

Defn: A sack or matters inflated with air, and used as a bed.

AIR BLADDER
Air" blad`der.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: An air sac, sometimes double or variously lobed, in the
visceral cavity of many fishes. It originates in the same way as the
lungs of air-breathing vertebrates, and in the adult may retain a
tubular connection with the pharynx or esophagus.

2. A sac or bladder full of air in an animal or plant; also an air
hole in a casting.

AIR BRAKE
Air" brake`. (Mach.)

Defn: A railway brake operated by condensed air. Knight.

AIR BRUSH
Air brush.

Defn: A kind of atomizer for applying liquid coloring matter in a
spray by compressed air.

AIR-BUILT
Air"-built`, a.

Defn: Erected in the air; having no solid foundation; chimerical; as,
an air-built castle.

AIR CELL
Air" cell`.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A cavity in the cellular tissue of plants, containing air only.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A receptacle of air in various parts of the system; as, a cell
or minute cavity in the walls of the air tubes of the lungs; the air
sac of birds; a dilatation of the air vessels in insects.

AIR CHAMBER
Air" cham`ber.

1. A chamber or cavity filled with air, in an animal or plant.

2. A cavity containing air to act as a spring for equalizing the flow
of a liquid in a pump or other hydraulic machine.

AIR COCK
Air" cock`.

Defn: A faucet to allow escape of air.

AIR COOLING
Air cooling.

Defn: In gasoline-engine motor vehicles, the cooling of the cylinder
by increasing its radiating surface by means of ribs or radiators,
and placing it so that it is exposed to a current of air. Cf. Water
cooling. -- Air"-cooled`, a.

AIRCRAFT
Air"craft`, n. sing. & pl.

Defn: Any device, as a balloon, aëroplane, etc., for floating in, or
flying through, the air.

AIR-DRAWN
Air"-drawn", a.

Defn: Drawn in air; imaginary.
This is the air-drawn dagger. Shak.

AIR DRILL
Air" drill`.

Defn: A drill driven by the elastic pressure of condensed air; a
pneumatic drill. Knight.

AIR ENGINE
Air" engine`.

Defn: An engine driven by heated or by compressed air. Knight.

AIRER
Air"er, n.

1. One who exposes to the air.

2. A frame on which clothes are aired or dried.

AIR GAP
Air gap. (Physics)

Defn: An air-filled gap in a magnetic or electric circuit; specif.,
in a dynamo or motor, the space between the field-magnet poles and
the armature; clearance.

AIR GAS
Air" gas`.

Defn: See under Gas.

AIR GUN
Air" gun`.

Defn: A kind of gun in which the elastic force of condensed air is
used to discharge the ball. The air is powerfully compressed into a
reservoir attached to the gun, by a condensing pump, and is
controlled by a valve actuated by the trigger.

AIR HOLE
Air" hole`.

1. A hole to admit or discharge air; specifically, a spot in the ice
not frozen over.

2. (Founding)

Defn: A fault in a casting, produced by a bubble of air; a blowhole.

AIRILY
Air"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; fippantly.

AIRINESS
Air"i*ness, n.

1. The state or quality of being airy; openness or exposure to the
air; as, the airiness of a country seat.

2. Lightness of spirits; gayety; levity; as, the airiness of young
persons.

AIRING
Air"ing, n.

1. A walk or a ride in the open air; a short excursion for health's
sake.

2. An exposure to air, or to a fire, for warming, drying, etc.; as,
the airing of linen, or of a room.

AIR JACKET
Air" jack`et.

Defn: A jacket having air-tight cells, or cavities which can be
filled with air, to render persons buoyant in swimming.

AIRLESS
Air"less, a.

Defn: Not open to a free current of air; wanting fresh air, or
communication with the open air.

AIR LEVEL
Air" lev`el.

Defn: Spirit level. See Level.

AIRLIKE
Air"like`, a.

Defn: Resembling air.

AIR LINE
Air line.

Defn: A path through the air made easy for aërial navigation by
steady winds.

AIRLING
Air"ling, n.

Defn: A thoughtless, gay person. [Obs.] "Slight airlings." B. Jonson.

AIRMAN
Air"man, n.

Defn: A man who ascends or flies in an aircraft; a flying machine
pilot.

AIRMANSHIP
Air"man*ship, n.

Defn: Art, skill, or ability in the practice of aërial navigation.

AIROL
Air"ol, n. (Pharm.)

Defn: A grayish green antiseptic powder, consisting of a basic iodide
and gallate of bismuth, sometimes used in place of iodoform. [A
Trademark]

AIROMETER
Air*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Air + -meter.]

Defn: A hollow cylinder to contain air. It is closed above and open
below, and has its open end plunged into water.

AIR PIPE
Air" pipe`.

Defn: A pipe for the passage of air; esp. a ventilating pipe.

AIR PLANT
Air" plant`. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant deriving its sustenance from the air alone; an
aërophyte.

Note: The "Florida moss" (Tillandsia), many tropical orchids, and
most mosses and lichens are air plants. Those which are lodged upon
trees, but not parasitic on them, are epiphytes.

AIR POISE
Air" poise`. Etym: [See Poise.]

Defn: A

AIR PUMP
Air" pump`.

1. (Physics)

Defn: A kind of pump for exhausting air from a vessel or closed
space; also, a pump to condense air of force in into a closed space.

2. (Steam Engines)

Defn: A pump used to exhaust from a condenser the condensed steam,
the water used for condensing, and any commingled air.

AIR SAC
Air" sac`. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the spaces in different parts. of the bodies of birds,
which are filled with air and connected with the air passages of the
lungs; an air cell.

AIR SHAFT
Air" shaft`.

Defn: A passage, usually vertical, for admitting fresh air into a
mine or a tunnel.

AIRSICK
Air`sick`, a.

Defn: Affected with aërial sickness. -- Air"sick`ness, n.

AIR-SLACKED
Air"-slacked`, a.

Defn: Slacked, or pulverized, by exposure to the air; as, air-slacked
lime.

AIR STOVE
Air" stove`.

Defn: A stove for heating a current of air which is directed against
its surface by means of pipes, and then distributed through a
building.

AIR-TIGHT
Air"-tight`, a.

Defn: So tight as to be impermeable to air; as, an air-tight
cylinder.

AIR-TIGHT
Air"-tight`, n.

Defn: A stove the draft of which can be almost entirely shut off.
[Colloq. U. S.]

AIR VESSEL
Air" ves`sel.

Defn: A vessel, cell, duct, or tube containing or conducting air; as
the air vessels of insects, birds, plants, etc.; the air vessel of a
pump, engine, etc. For the latter, see Air chamber. The air vessels
of insects are called tracheæ, of plants spiral vessels.

AIRWARD; AIRWARDS
Air"ward, Air"wards, adv.

Defn: Toward the air; upward. [R.] Keats.

AIRWOMAN
Air"wom`an, n.

Defn: A woman who ascends or flies in an aircraft.

AIRY
Air"y, a.

1. Consisting of air; as, an airy substance; the airy parts of
bodies.

2. Relating or belonging to air; high in air; aërial; as, an airy
flight. "The airy region." Milton.

3. Open to a free current of air; exposed to the air; breezy; as, an
airy situation.

4. Resembling air; thin; unsubstantial; not material; airlike. "An
airy spirit." Shak.

5. Relating to the spirit or soul; delicate; graceful; as, airy
music.

6. Without reality; having no solid foundation; empty; trifling;
visionary. "Airy fame." Shak.
Empty sound, and airy notions. Roscommon.

7. Light of heart; vivacious; sprightly; flippant; superficial.
"Merry and airy." Jer. Taylor.

8. Having an affected manner; being in the habit of putting on airs;
affectedly grand. [Colloq.]

9. (Paint.)

Defn: Having the light and aërial tints true to nature. Elmes.

AISLE
Aisle, n. Etym: [OF. ele, F. aile, wing, wing of a building, L. ala,
contr. fr. axilla.] (Arch.)
(a) A lateral division of a building, separated from the middle part,
called the nave, by a row of columns or piers, which support the roof
or an upper wall containing windows, called the clearstory wall.
(b) Improperly used also for the have; -- as in the phrases, a church
with three aisles, the middle aisle.
(c) Also (perhaps from confusion with alley), a passage into which
the pews of a church open.

AISLED
Aisled, a.

Defn: Furnished with an aisle or aisles.

AISLESS
Ais"less, a.

Defn: Without an aisle.

AIT
Ait, n. Etym: [AS. ieg, ig, island. See Eyot.]

Defn: An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot.
The ait where the osiers grew. R. Hodges (1649).
Among green aits and meadows. Dickens.

AIT
Ait, n.

Defn: Oat. [Scot.] Burns.

AITCH
Aitch, n.

Defn: The letter h or H.

AITCHBONE
Aitch"bone`, n. Etym: [For nachebone. For loss of n, cf. Adder. See
Natch.]

Defn: The bone of the rump; also, the cut of beef surrounding this
bone. [Spelt also edgebone.]

AITIOLOGY
Ai`ti*ol"o*gy, n.

Defn: See Ætiology.

AJAR
A*jar", adv. Etym: [OE. on char ajar, on the turn; AS. cerr, cyrr,
turn, akin to G. kehren to turn, and to D. akerre. See Char.]

Defn: Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar.

AJAR
A*jar", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + jar.]

Defn: In a state of discord; out of harmony; as, he is ajar with the
world.

AJAVA
Aj"a*va, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Ajouan.

AJOG
A*jog", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + jog.]

Defn: On the jog.

AJOUAN; AJOWAN
Aj"ou*an  Aj"ow*an, n. [Written also ajwain.] [Prob. native name.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of Ammi Copticum, syn. Carum Ajowan, used both as a
medicine and as a condiment. An oil containing thymol is extracted
from it. Called also Javanee seed, Javanese seed, and ajava.

AJUTAGE
Aj"u*tage, n. Etym: [F. ajutage, for ajoutage, fr. ajouter to add,
LL. adjuxtare, fr. L. ad + juxta near to, nigh. Cf. Adjutage,
Adjustage, Adjust.]

Defn: A tube through which is water is discharged; an efflux tube;
as, the ajutage of a fountain.

AKE
Ake, n. & v.

Defn: See Ache.

AKENE
A*kene", n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Achene.

AKETON
Ak"e*ton, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Acton.

AKIMBO
A*kim"bo, a. Etym: [Etymology unknown. Cf. Kimbo.]

Defn: With a crook or bend; with the hand on the hip and elbow turned
outward. "With one arm akimbo." Irving.

AKIN
A*kin", a. Etym: [Pref. a- (for of) + kin.]

1. Of the same kin; related by blood; -- used of persons; as, the two
families are near akin.

2. Allied by nature; partaking of the same properties; of the same
kind. "A joy akin to rapture." Cowper.
The literary character of the work is akin to its moral character.
Jeffrey.

Note: This adjective is used only after the noun.

AKINESIA
Ak`i*ne"si*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Paralysis of the motor nerves; loss of movement. Foster.

AKINESIC
Ak`i*ne"sic, a. (med.)

Defn: Pertaining to akinesia.

AKNEE
A*knee", adv.

Defn: On the knee. [R.] Southey.

AKNOW
Ak*now".

Defn: Earlier form of Acknow. [Obs.] To be aknow, to acknowledge; to
confess. [Obs.]

AL
Al, a.

Defn: All. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AL-
Al-. A prefix. (a) Etym: [AS. eal.]

Defn: All; wholly; completely; as, almighty,almost. (b) Etym: [L.
ad.]

Defn: To; at; on; -- in OF. shortened to a-. See Ad-.
(c) The Arabic definite article answering to the English the; as,
Alkoran, the Koran or the Book; alchemy, the chemistry.

AL
Al. conj.

Defn: Although; if. [Obs.] See All, conj.

ALA
A"la, n.; pl. Alæ. Etym: [L., a wing.] (Biol.)

Defn: A winglike organ, or part.

ALABAMA PERIOD
Al`a*ba"ma pe"ri*od. (Geol.)

Defn: A period in the American eocene, the lowest in the tertiary age
except the lignitic.

ALABASTER
Al"a*bas"ter, n. Etym: [L. alabaster, Gr. Alabastron, the name of a
town in Egypt, near which it was common: cf. OF. alabastre, F.
albâtre.]

1. (Min.)
(a) A compact variety or sulphate of lime, or gypsum, of fine
texture, and usually white and translucent, but sometimes yellow,
red, or gray. It is carved into vases, mantel ornaments, etc.
(b) A hard, compact variety of carbonate of lime, somewhat
translucent, or of banded shades of color; stalagmite. The name is
used in this sense by Pliny. It is sometimes distinguished as
oriental alabaster.

2. A box or vessel for holding odoriferous ointments, etc.; -- so
called from the stone of which it was originally made. Fosbroke.

ALABASTRIAN
Al`a*bas"tri*an, a.

Defn: Alabastrine.

ALABASTRINE
Al`a*bas"trine, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, alabaster; as alabastrine limbs.

ALABASTRUM
Al`a*bas"trum, n.; pl. Alabastra. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A flower bud. Gray.

ALACK
A*lack", interj. Etym: [Prob. from ah! lack! OE. lak loss, failure,
misfortune. See Lack.]

Defn: An exclamation expressive of sorrow. [Archaic. or Poet.] Shak.

ALACKADAY
A*lack"a*day`, interj. Etym: [For alack the day. Cf. Lackaday.]

Defn: An exclamation expressing sorrow.

Note: Shakespeare has "alack the day" and "alack the heavy day."
Compare "woe worth the day."

ALACRIFY
A*lac"ri*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. alacer, alacris, lively + -fly.]

Defn: To rouse to action; to inspirit.

ALACRIOUS
A*lac"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. alacer, alacris.]

Defn: Brisk; joyously active; lively.
'T were well if we were a little more alacrious. Hammond.

ALACRIOUSLY
A*lac"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: With alacrity; briskly.

ALACRIOUSNESS
A*lac"ri*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Alacrity. [Obs.] Hammond.

ALACRITY
A*lac"ri*ty, n. Etym: [L. alacritas, fr. alacer lively, eager, prob.
akin to Gr. aljan zeal.]

Defn: A cheerful readiness, willingness, or promptitude; joyous
activity; briskness; sprightliness; as, the soldiers advanced with
alacrity to meet the enemy.
I have not that alacrity of spirit, Nor cheer of mind that I was wont
to have. Shak.

ALADINIST
A*lad"in*ist, n. Etym: [From Aladin, for Ala Eddin, i. e., height of
religion, a learned divine under Mohammed II. and Bajazet II.]

Defn: One of a sect of freethinkers among the Mohammedans.

ALALIA
A*la"li*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. +  a talking; cf.  speechless.]
(Med.)

Defn: Inability to utter articulate sounds, due either to paralysis
of the larynx or to that form of aphasia, called motor, or ataxis,
aphasia, due to loss of control of the muscles of speech.

ALALONGA; ALILONGHI
Al`a*lon"ga, or Al`i*lon"ghi, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The tunny. See Albicore.

ALAMIRE
A`la*mi"re, n. Etym: [Compounded of a la mi re, names of notes in the
musical scale.]

Defn: The lowest note but one in Guido Aretino's scale of music.

ALAMODALITY
Al`a*mo*dal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being à la mode; conformity to the mode or
fashion; fashionableness. [R.] Southey.

ALAMODE
Al"a*mode`, adv. & a. Etym: [F. à la mode after the fashion.]

Defn: According to the fashion or prevailing mode. "Alamode beef
shops." Macaulay.

ALAMODE
Al"a*mode`, n.

Defn: A thin, black silk for hoods, scarfs, etc.; -- often called
simply mode. Buchanan.

ALAMORT
Al`a*mort", a. Etym: [F. à la mort to the death. Cf. Amort.]

Defn: To the death; mortally.

ALAN
A*lan", n. Etym: [OF. alan, alant; cf. Sp. alano.]

Defn: A wolfhound. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALAND
A*land", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + land.]

Defn: On land; to the land; ashore. "Cast aland." Sir P. Sidney.

ALANINE
Al"a*nine, n. Etym: [Aldehyde + the ending -ine. The -n- is a
euphonic insertion.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline base, C3H7NO2, derived from aldehyde
ammonia.

ALANTIN
A*lan"tin, n. Etym: [G. alant elecampane, the Inula helenium of
Linnæus.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Inulin.

ALAR
A"lar, a. Etym: [L. alarius, fr. ala wing: cf. F. alaire.]

1. Pertaining to, or having, wings.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Axillary; in the fork or axil. Gray.

ALARM
A*larm", n. Etym: [F. alarme, It. all' arme to arms ! fr. L. arma,
pl., arms. See Arms, and cf. Alarum.]

1. A summons to arms, as on the approach of an enemy.
Arming to answer in a night alarm. Shak.

2. Any sound or information intended to give notice of approaching
danger; a warming sound to arouse attention; a warning of danger.
Sound an alarm in my holy mountain. Joel ii. 1.

3. A sudden attack; disturbance; broil. [R.] "These home alarms."
Shak.
Thy palace fill with insults and alarms. Pope.

4. Sudden surprise with fear or terror excited by apprehension of
danger; in the military use, commonly, sudden apprehension of being
attacked by surprise.
Alarm and resentment spread throughout the camp. Macaulay.

5. A mechanical contrivance for awaking persons from sleep, or
rousing their attention; an alarum. Alarm bell, a bell that gives
notice on danger.
 -- Alarm clock or watch, a clock or watch which can be so set as to
ring or strike loudly at a prearranged hour, to wake from sleep, or
excite attention.
 -- Alarm gauge, a contrivance attached to a steam boiler for showing
when the pressure of steam is too high, or the water in the boiler
too low.
 -- Alarm post, a place to which troops are to repair in case of an
alarm.

Syn.
 -- Fright; affright; terror; trepidation; apprehension;
consternation; dismay; agitation; disquiet; disquietude.
 -- Alarm, Fright, Terror, Consternation. These words express
different degrees of fear at the approach of danger. Fright is fear
suddenly excited, producing confusion of the senses, and hence it is
unreflecting. Alarm is the hurried agitation of feeling which springs
from a sense of immediate and extreme exposure. Terror is agitating
and excessive fear, which usually benumbs the faculties.
Consternation is overwhelming fear, and carries a notion of
powerlessness and amazement. Alarm agitates the feelings; terror
disorders the understanding and affects the will; fright seizes on
and confuses the sense; consternation takes possession of the soul,
and subdues its faculties. See Apprehension.

ALARM
A*larm", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alarmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Alarming.]
Etym: [Alarm, n. Cf. F. alarmer.]

1. To call to arms for defense; to give notice to (any one) of
approaching danger; to rouse to vigilance and action; to put on the
alert.

2. To keep in excitement; to disturb.

3. To surprise with apprehension of danger; to fill with anxiety in
regard to threatening evil; to excite with sudden fear.
Alarmed by rumors of military preparation. Macaulay.

ALARMABLE
A*larm"a*ble, a.

Defn: Easily alarmed or disturbed.

ALARMED
A*larmed", a.

Defn: Aroused to vigilance; excited by fear of approaching danger;
agitated; disturbed; as, an alarmed neighborhood; an alarmed modesty.
The white pavilions rose and fell On the alarmed air. Longfellow.

ALARMEDLY
A*larm"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an alarmed manner.

ALARMING
A*larm"ing, a.

Defn: Exciting, or calculated to excite, alarm; causing apprehension
of danger; as, an alarming crisis or report.
 -- A*larm"ing*ly, adv.

ALARMIST
A*larm"ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alarmiste.]

Defn: One prone to sound or excite alarms, especially, needless
alarms. Macaulay.

ALARUM
A*lar"um, n. Etym: [OE. alarom, the same word as alarm, n.]

Defn: See Alarm. [Now Poetic]

Note: The variant form alarum is now commonly restricted to an alarm
signal or the mechanism to sound an alarm (as in an alarm clock.)

ALARY
Al"a*ry, a. Etym: [L. alarius, fr. ala wing.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped.
The alary system of insects. Wollaston.

ALAS
A*las", interj. Etym: [OE. alas, allas, OF. alas, F. hélas; a interj.
(L. ah.) + las wretched (that I am), L. lassus weary, akin to E.
late. See Late.]

Defn: An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension of
evil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas the
day, like alack a day, or alas the white.

ALATE
A*late", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + late.]

Defn: Lately; of late. [Archaic]
There hath been alate such tales spread abroad. Latimer.

ALATE; ALATED
A"late, A"la*ted, a. Etym: [L. alatus, from ala wing.]

Defn: Winged; having wings, or side appendages like wings.

ALATERN; ALATERNUS
Al"a*tern, Al`a*ter"nus, n. Etym: [L. ala wing + terni three each.]
(Bot.)

Defn: An ornamental evergreen shrub (Rhamnus alaternus) belonging to
the buckthorns.

ALATION
A*la"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. alatus winged.]

Defn: The state of being winged.

ALAUNT
A*launt", n.

Defn: See Alan. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALB
Alb, n. Etym: [OE. albe, LL. alba, fr. L. albus white. Cf. Album and
Aube.]

Defn: A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an enveloping
the person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holy
orders when officiating at mass. It was formerly worn, at least by
clerics, in daily life.

ALBACORE
Al"ba*core, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Albicore.

ALBAN
Al"ban, n. Etym: [L. albus white.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta-
percha by the action of alcohol or ether.

ALBANIAN
Al*ba"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Albania.

ALBATA
Al*ba"ta, n. Etym: [L. albatus, p. p. of albare to make white, fr.
albus white.]

Defn: A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks,
teapots, etc. British plate or German silver. See German silver,
under German.

ALBATROSS
Al"ba*tross, n. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. Pg. alcatraz cormorant,
albatross, or Sp. alcatraz a pelican: cf. Pg. alcatruz, Sp. arcaduz,
a bucket, fr. Ar. al-qadus the bucket, fr. Gr. ka`dos, a water
vessel. So an Arabic term for pelican is water-carrier, as a bird
carrying water in its pouch.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A web-footed bird, of the genus Diomedea, of which there are
several species. They are the largest of sea birds, capable of long-
continued flight, and are often seen at great distances from the
land. They are found chiefly in the southern hemisphere.

ALBE; ALBEE
Al`be", Al`bee", conj. Etym: [See Albeit.]

Defn: Although; albeit. [Obs.]
Albe Clarissa were their chiefest founderess. Spenser.

ALBEDO
Al*be"do, n. Etym: [L., fr. albus white.]

Defn: Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.) The ratio which the light
reflected from an unpolished surface bears to the total light falling
upon that surface.

ALBEIT
Al`be"it, conj. Etym: [OE. al be although it be, where al is our all.
Cf. Although.]

Defn: Even though; although; notwithstanding. Chaucer.
Albeit so masked, Madam, I love the truth. Tennyson.

ALBERTITE
Al"bert*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A bituminous mineral resembling asphaltum, found in the county
of A.

ALBERT WARE
Al"bert ware.

Defn: A soft ornamental terra-cotta pottery, sold in the biscuit
state for decorating.

ALBERTYPE
Al"ber*type, n. Etym: [From the name of the inventor, Albert, of
Munich.]

Defn: A picture printed from a kind of gelatine plate produced by
means of a photographic negative.

ALBESCENCE
Al*bes"cence, n.

Defn: The act of becoming white; whitishness.

ALBESCENT
Al*bes"cent, a. Etym: [L. albescens, p. pr. of albescere to grow
white, fr. albus white.]

Defn: Becoming white or whitish; moderately white.

ALBICANT
Al"bi*cant, a. Etym: [L. albicans, p. pr. of albicare, albicatum, to
be white, fr. albus white.]

Defn: Growing or becoming white.

ALBICATION
Al`bi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, or
streaks.

ALBICORE
Al"bi*core, n. Etym: [F. albicore (cf. Sp. albacora, Pg. albacor,
albacora, albecora), fr. Ar. bakr, bekr, a young camel, young cow,
heifer, and the article al: cf. Pg. bacoro a little pig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family,
esp. Orcynus alalonga. One species (Orcynus thynnus), common in the
Mediterranean and Atlantic, is called in New England the horse
mackerel; the tunny. [Written also albacore.]

ALBIFICATION
Al`bi*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. albification: L. albus white +
ficare (only in comp.), facere, to make.]

Defn: The act or process of making white. [Obs.]

ALBIGENSES; ALBIGEOIS
Al`bi*gen"ses, Al`bi`geois", n. pl. Etym: [From Albi and Albigeois, a
town and its district in the south of France, in which the sect
abounded.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A sect of reformers opposed to the church of Rome in the 12th
centuries.

Note: The Albigenses were a branch of the Catharists (the pure). They
were exterminated by crusades and the Inquisition. They were distinct
from the Waldenses.

ALBIGENSIAN
Al`bi*gen"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Albigenses.

ALBINESS
Al*bi"ness, n.

Defn: A female albino. Holmes.

ALBINISM
Al"bi*nism, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being an albino: abinoism;
leucopathy.

ALBINISTIC
Al`bi*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Affected with albinism.

ALBINO
Al*bi"no, n.; pl. Albinos. Etym: [Sp. or Pg. albino, orig. whitish,
fr. albo white, L. albus.]

Defn: A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by some
defect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin,
hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has a
skin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deep
red pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the lower
animals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitish
condition from the absence of chlorophyll. Amer. Cyc.

Note: The term was originally applied by the Portuguese to negroes
met with on the coast of Africa, who were mottled with white spots.

ALBINOISM
Al*bi"no*ism, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being an albino; albinism.

ALBINOTIC
Al`bi*not"ic, a.

Defn: Affected with albinism.

ALBION
Al"bi*on, n. Etym: [Prob. from the same root as Gael. alp a height or
hill. "It may have been bestowed on the land lying behind the white
cliffs visible from the coast of Gaul. Albany, the old name of
Scotland, means probably the "hilly land." I. Taylor.]

Defn: An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry.
In that nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak.

ALBITE
Al"bite, n. Etym: [L. albus white.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization,
and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a common
constituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar.

ALBOLITH
Al"bo*lith, n. Etym: [L. albus white + -lith.]

Defn: A kind of plastic cement, or artificial stone, consisting
chiefly of magnesia and silica; -- called also albolite.

ALBORAK
Al"bo*rak, n. Etym: [Ar. al-buraq, fr. baraqa to flash, shine.]

Defn: The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said to
have been carried up to heaven; a white mule.

ALB SUNDAY
Alb Sunday. (Eccl.)

Defn: The first Sunday after Easter Sunday, properly Albless Sunday,
because in the early church those who had been baptized on Easter eve
laid aside on the following Saturday their white albs which had been
put on after baptism.

ALBUGINEOUS
Al`bu*gin"e*ous, a. Etym: [See Albugo.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or resembling, the white of the eye, or of an
egg; albuminous; -- a term applied to textures, humors, etc., which
are perfectly white.

ALBUGO
Al*bu"go, n.; pl. Albugines. Etym: [L., whiteness, fr. albus white.]
(Med.)

Defn: Same as Leucoma.

ALBUM
Al"bum, n. Etym: [L., neut. of albus white: cf. F. album. Cf. Alb.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list of
names, etc.

2. A register for visitors' names; a visitors' book.

3. A blank book, in which to insert autographs sketches, memorial
writing of friends, photographs, etc.

ALBUMEN
Al*bu"men, n. Etym: [L., fr. albus white.]

1. The white of an egg.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Nourishing matter stored up within the integuments of the seed
in many plants, but not incorporated in the embryo. It is the floury
part in corn, wheat, and like grains, the oily part in poppy seeds,
the fleshy part in the cocoanut, etc.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Albumin.

ALBUMENIZE
Al*bu"men*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Albumenized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Albumenizing.]

Defn: To cover or saturate with albumen; to coat or treat with an
albuminous solution; as, to albuminize paper.

ALBUM GRAECUM
Al"bum Græ"cum. Etym: [L., Greek white.]

Defn: Dung of dogs or hyenas, which becomes white by exposure to air.
It is used in dressing leather, and was formerly used in medicine.

ALBUMIN
Al*bu"min, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A thick, viscous nitrogenous substance, which is the chief and
characteristic constituent of white of eggs and of the serum of
blood, and is found in other animal substances, both fluid and solid,
also in many plants. It is soluble in water is coagulated by heat ad
by certain chemical reagents. Acid albumin, a modification of albumin
produced by the action of dilute acids. It is not coagulated by heat.
 -- Alkali albumin, albumin as modified by the action of alkaline
substances; -- called also albuminate.

ALBUMINATE
Al*bu"mi*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance produced by the action of an alkali upon albumin,
and resembling casein in its properties; also, a compound formed by
the union of albumin with another substance.

ALBUMINIFEROUS
Al*bu`mi*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. albumen + -ferous.]

Defn: Supplying albumen.

ALBUMINIMETER
Al*bu`mi*nim"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. albumen, albuminis + -meter: cf. F.
albuminimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in a
liquid.

ALBUMININ
Al*bu"mi*nin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The substance of the cells which inclose the white of birds'
eggs.

ALBUMINIPAROUS
Al*bu`mi*nip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. albumen + parere to bear, bring
forth.]

Defn: Producing albumin.

ALBUMINOID
Al*bu"mi*noid, a. Etym: [L. albumen + -oid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Resembling albumin.
 -- n.

Defn: One of a class of organic principles (called also proteids)
which form the main part of organized tissues. Brunton.

ALBUMINOIDAL
Al*bu`mi*noid"al, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of the nature of an albuminoid.

ALBUMINOSE
Al*bu"mi*nose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action of
natural or artificial gastric juice. See Peptone.

ALBUMINOSIS
Al*bu`mi*no"sis, n. [NL., fr. E. albumin.] (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition due to excessive increase of albuminous
elements in the blood.

ALBUMINOUS; ALBUMINOSE
Al*bu"mi*nous, Al*bu"mi*nose`, a. Etym: [Cf. F. albumineux.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, albumen; having the properties
of, or resembling, albumen or albumin.
 -- Al*bu"mi*nous*ness, n.

ALBUMINURIA
Al*bu`mi*nu"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. albumen + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which albumin is present in the urine.

ALBUMOSE
Al"bu*mose`, n. Etym: [From albumin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by dilute
acids or by an acid solution of pepsin. Used also in combination, as
antialbumose, hemialbumose.

ALBURN
Al"burn, n. Etym: [L. alburnus, fr. L. albus white. Cf. Auburn.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarly
silvery color which are used in making artificial pearls.

ALBURNOUS
Al*bur"nous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to alburnum; of the alburnum; as, alburnous
substances.

ALBURNUM
Al*bur"num, n. Etym: [L., fr. albus white.] (Bot.)

Defn: The white and softer part of wood, between the inner bark and
the hard wood or duramen; sapwood.

ALBYN
Al"byn, n. Etym: [See Albion.]

Defn: Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland. T. Cambell.

ALCADE
Al*cade", n.

Defn: Same as Alcaid.

ALCAHEST
Al"ca*hest, n.

Defn: Same as Alkahest.

ALCAIC
Al*ca"ic, a. Etym: [L. Alcaïcus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Alcæus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b.
c.
 -- n. A kind of verse, so called from Alcæus. One variety consists
of five feet, a spondee or iambic, an iambic, a long syllable, and
two dactyls.

ALCAID; ALCAYDE
Al*caid", Al*cayde", n. Etym: [Sp. alcaide, fr. Ar. al-qa\'c6d
governor, fr. qada to lead, govern.]

1. A commander of a castle or fortress among the Spaniards,
Portuguese, and Moors.

2. The warden, or keeper of a jail.

ALCALDE
Al*cal"de, n. Etym: [Sp. alcalde, fr. Ar. al-qadi judge, fr. qada to
decide, judge. Hence, the cadi of the Turks. Cf. Cadi.]

Defn: A magistrate or judge in Spain and in Spanish America, etc.
Prescott.

Note: Sometimes confounded with Alcaid.

ALCALDIA
Al`cal*di"a, n. [Sp. Alcaldía.]

Defn: The jurisdiction or office of an alcalde; also, the building or
chamber in which he conducts the business of his office.

ALCALIMETER
Al`ca*lim"e*ter, n.

Defn: See Alkalimeter.

ALCANNA
Al*can"na, n. Etym: [Sp. alcana, alhe, fr. Ar. al-hinna. See Henna,
and cf. Alkanet.] (Bot.)

Defn: An oriental shrub (Lawsonia inermis) from which henna is
obtained.

ALCARRAZA
Al`car*ra"za, n.; pl. Alcarrazas. Etym: [Sp., from Ar. al-kurraz
earthen vessel.]

Defn: A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids by
evaporation from the exterior surface.

ALCAYDE
Al*cayde", n.

Defn: Same as Alcaid.

ALCAZAR
Al*ca"zar, n. Etym: [ fr. Ar. al the + qacr (in pl.) a castle.]

Defn: A fortress; also, a royal palace. Prescott.

ALCEDO
Al*ce"do, n. Etym: [L., equiv. to Gr. Halcyon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher
(Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon.

ALCHEMIC; ALCHEMICAL
Al*chem"ic, Al*chem"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alchimique.]

Defn: Of or relating to alchemy.

ALCHEMICALLY
Al*chem"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of alchemy.

ALCHEMIST
Al"che*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. alquemiste, F. alchimiste.]

Defn: One who practices alchemy.
You are alchemist; make gold. Shak.

ALCHEMISTIC; ALCHEMISTICAL
Al`che*mis"tic, Al`che*mis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to or practicing alchemy.
Metaphysical and alchemistical legislators. Burke.

ALCHEMISTRY
Al"che*mis*try, n.

Defn: Alchemy. [Obs.]

ALCHEMIZE
Al"che*mize, v. t.

Defn: To change by alchemy; to transmute. Lovelace.

ALCHEMY
Al"che*my, n. Etym: [OF. alkemie, arquemie, F. alchimie, Ar. al-
kimia, fr. late Gr. alquimia, It. alchimia. Gr. fundere to pour,
Goth. guitan, AS. geótan, to pour, and so to E. fuse. See Fuse, and
cf. Chemistry.]

1. An imaginary art which aimed to transmute the baser metals into
gold, to find the panacea, or universal remedy for diseases, etc. It
led the way to modern chemistry.

2. A mixed metal composed mainly of brass, formerly used for various
utensils; hence, a trumpet. [Obs.]
Put to their mouths the sounding alchemy. Milton.

3. Miraculous power of transmuting something common into something
precious.
Kissing with golden face the meadows green, Gilding pale streams with
heavenly alchemy. Shak.

ALCHYMIC; ALCHYMIST; ALCHYMISTIC; ALCHYMY
Al*chym"ic, a., Al"chy*mist, n., Al`chy*mis"tic, a., Al"chy*my, n.

Defn: See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.

ALCO
Al"co, n.

Defn: A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines.

ALCOATE; ALCOHATE
Al"co*ate, Al"co*hate, n.

Defn: Shortened forms of Alcoholate.

ALCOHOL
Al"co*hol, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcool, formerly written alcohol, Sp.
alcohol alcohol, antimony, galena, OSp. alcofol; all fr. Ar. al-kohl
a powder of antimony or galena, to paint the eyebrows with. The name
was afterwards applied, on account of the fineness of this powder, to
highly rectified spirits, a signification unknown in Arabia. The Sp.
word has bot meanings. Cf. Alquifou.]

1. An impalpable powder. [Obs.]

2. The fluid essence or pure spirit obtained by distillation. [Obs.]
Boyle.

3. Pure spirit of wine; pure or highly rectified spirit (called also
ethyl alcohol); the spirituous or intoxicating element of fermented
or distilled liquors, or more loosely a liquid containing it in
considerable quantity. It is extracted by simple distillation from
various vegetable juices and infusions of a saccharine nature, which
have undergone vinous fermentation.

Note: As used in the U. S. "Pharmacopoeia, alcohol contains 91 per
cent by weight of ethyl alcohol and 9 per cent of water; and diluted
alcohol (proof spirit) contains 45.5 per cent by weight of ethyl
alcohol and 54.5 per cent of water.

4. (Organic Chem.)

Defn: A class of compounds analogous to vinic alcohol in
constitution. Chemically speaking, they are hydroxides of certain
organic radicals; as, the radical ethyl forms common or ethyl alcohol
(C2H5OH); methyl forms methyl alcohol (CH3.OH) or wood spirit; amyl
forms amyl alcohol (C5H11.OH) or fusel oil, etc.

ALCOHOLATE
Al"co*hol*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcolaie.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which the
latter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization.
Graham.

ALCOHOLATURE
Al`co*hol"a*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcoolature.] (Med.)

Defn: An alcoholic tincture prepared with fresh plants. New Eng.
Dict.

ALCOHOLIC
Al`co*hol"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcolique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to alcohol, or partaking of its qualities;
derived from, or caused by, alcohol; containing alcohol; as,
alcoholic mixtures; alcoholic gastritis; alcoholic odor.

ALCOHOLIC
Al`co*hol"ic, n.

1. A person given to the use of alcoholic liquors.

2. pl.

Defn: Alcoholic liquors.

ALCOHOLISM
Al"co*hol*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcoolisme.] (Med.)

Defn: A diseased condition of the system, brought about by the
continued use of alcoholic liquors.

ALCOHOLIZATION
Al`co*hol`i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcoolisation.]

1. The act of reducing a substance to a fine or impalpable powder.
[Obs.] Johnson.

2. The act rectifying spirit.

3. Saturation with alcohol; putting the animal system under the
influence of alcoholic liquor.

ALCOHOLIZE
Al"co*hol*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alcoholized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alcoholizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. alcooliser.]

1. To reduce to a fine powder. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. To convert into alcohol; to rectify; also, to saturate with
alcohol.

ALCOHOLOMETER; ALCOHOLMETER
Al`co*hol*om"e*ter, Al`co*hol"me*ter, n. Etym: [Alcohol + -meter.]
(Chem.)

Defn: An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a
scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol,
either by weight or volume. It is usually a form of hydrometer with a
special scale.

ALCOHOLOMETRIC; ALCOHOLOMETRICAL; ALCOHOLMETRICAL
Al`co*hol`o*met"ric, Al`co*hol`o*met"ric*al, Al`co*hol*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Relating to the alcoholometer or alcoholometry.
The alcoholometrical strength of spirituous liquors. Ure.

ALCOHOLOMETRY
Al`co*hol"om"e*try, n.

Defn: The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of pure
alcohol which spirituous liquors contain.

ALCOHOMETER; ALCOHOMETRIC
Al`co*hom"e*ter, n., Al`co*ho*met"ric, a.

Defn: Same as Alcoholometer, Alcoholometric.

ALCOOMETRY; ALCOOEMETRY
Al`co*öm"e*try, n.

Defn: See Alcoholometry.

Note: The chemists say alcomètre, alcoomètrie, doubtless by the
suppression of a syllable in order to avoid a disagreeable sequence
of sounds. (Cf. Idolatry.) Littré.

ALCORAN
Al"co*ran, n. Etym: [alcoran, fr. Ar. al-qoran, orig. the reading,
the book, fr. qaraa to read. Cf. Koran.]

Defn: The Mohammedan Scriptures; the Koran (now the usual form).
[Spelt also Alcoran.]

ALCORANIC
Al`co*ran"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Koran.

ALCORANIST
Al`co*ran"ist, n.

Defn: One who adheres to the letter of the Koran, rejecting all
traditions.

ALCORNOQUE
Al`cor*no"que, n. [Sp., cork tree.]

Defn: The bark of several trees, esp. of Bowdichia virgilioides of
Brazil, used as a remedy for consumption; of Byrsonima crassifolia,
used in tanning; of Alchornea latifolia, used medicinally; or of
Quercus ilex, the cork tree.

ALCOVE
Al"cove, n. Etym: [F. alcôve, Sp. or Pg. alcoba, from Ar. al-quobbah
arch, vault, tent.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a
larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess
in a library.

2. A small ornamental building with seats, or an arched seat, in a
pleasure ground; a garden bower. Cowper.

3. Any natural recess analogous to an alcove or recess in an
apartment.
The youthful wanderers found a wild alcove. Falconer.

ALCYON
Al"cy*on, n.

Defn: See Halcyon.

ALCYONACEA
Al`cy*o*na"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of soft-bodied Alcyonaria, of which Alcyonium is the
type. See Illust. under Alcyonaria.

ALCYONARIA
Al`cy*o*na"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of Anthozoa. It includes the Alcyonacea,
Pennatulacea, and Gorgonacea.

ALCYONES
Al*cy"o*nes, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of Alcyon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The kingfishers.

ALCYONIC
Al`cy*on"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.

ALCYONIUM
Al`cy*o"ni*um, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fleshy Alcyonaria, its polyps somewhat resembling
flowers with eight fringed rays. The term was also formerly used for
certain species of sponges.

ALCYONOID
Al"cy*o*noid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.
 -- n.

Defn: A zoöphyte of the order Alcyonaria.

ALDAY
Al"day, adv.

Defn: Continually. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALDEBARAN
Al*deb"a*ran, n. Etym: [Ar. al-debaran, fr. dabar to follow; so
called because this star follows upon the Pleiades.] (Astron.)

Defn: A red star of the first magnitude, situated in the eye of
Taurus; the Bull's Eye. It is the bright star in the group called the
Hyades.
Now when Aldebaran was mounted high Above the shiny Cassiopeia's
chair. Spenser.

ALDEHYDE
Al"de*hyde, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. alcohol dehydrogenatum, alcohol
deprived of its hydrogen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless, mobile, and very volatile liquid obtained from
alcohol by certain of oxidation.

Note: The aldehydes are intermediate between the alcohols and acids,
and differ from the alcohols in having two less hydrogen atoms in the
molecule, as common aldehyde (called also acetic aldehyde or ethyl
aldehyde), C2H4O; methyl aldehyde, CH2O. Aldehyde ammonia (Chem.), a
compound formed by the union of aldehyde with ammonia.

ALDEHYDIC
Al`de*hy"dic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to aldehyde; as, aldehydic acid. Miller.

ALDER
Al"der, n. Etym: [OE. aldir, aller, fr. AS. alr, aler, alor, akin to
D. els, G. erle, Icel. erlir, erli, Swed. al, Dan. elle, el, L.
alnus, and E. elm.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to the
genus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers and
tanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs or
small trees. Black alder. (a) A European shrub (Rhamnus frangula);
Alder buckthorn. (b) An American species of holly (Ilex
verticillata), bearing red berries.

ALDER; ALLER
Al"der, Al"ler, a. Etym: [From ealra, alra, gen. pl. of AS. eal. The
d is excrescent.]

Defn: Of all; -- used in composition; as, alderbest, best of all,
alderwisest, wisest of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALDER FLY
Al"der fly.

1. Any of numerous neuropterous insects of the genus Sialis or allied
genera. They have aquatic larvæ, which are used for bait.

2.  (Angling) An artificial fly with brown mottled wings, body of
peacock harl, and black legs.

ALDER-LIEFEST
Al`der-lief"est, a. Etym: [For allerliefest dearest of all. See
Lief.]

Defn: Most beloved. [Obs.] Shak.

ALDERMAN
Al"der*man, n.; pl. Aldplwmen. Etym: [AS. aldormon, ealdorman; ealdor
an elder + man. See Elder, n.]

1. A senior or superior; a person of rank or dignity. [Obs.]

Note: The title was applied, among the Anglo-Saxons, to princes,
dukes, earls, senators, and presiding magistrates; also to
archbishops and bishops, implying superior wisdom or authority. Thus
Ethelstan, duke of the East-Anglians, was called Alderman of all
England; and there were aldermen of cities, counties, and castles,
who had jurisdiction within their respective districts.

3. One of a board or body of municipal officers next in order to the
mayor and having a legislative function. They may, in some cases,
individually exercise some magisterial and administrative functions.

ALDERMANCY
Al"der*man*cy, n.

Defn: The office of an alderman.

ALDERMANIC
Al"der*man"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to, becoming to, or like, an alderman; characteristic
of an alderman.

ALDERMANITY
Al`der*man"i*ty, n.

1. Aldermen collectively; the body of aldermen.

2. The state of being an alderman. [Jocular]

ALDERMANLIKE
Al`der*man*like`, a.

Defn: Like or suited to an alderman.

ALDERMANLY
Al"der*man*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.

ALDERMANLY
Al"der*man*ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an alderman. "An aldermanly
discretion." Swift.

ALDERMANRY
Al"der*man*ry, n.

1. The district or ward of an alderman.

2. The office or rank of an alderman. [R.] B. Jonson.

ALDERMANSHIP
Al"der*man*ship, n.

Defn: The condition, position, or office of an alderman. Fabyan.

ALDERN
Al"dern, a.

Defn: Made of alder.

ALDERNEY
Al"der*ney, n.

Defn: One of a breed of cattle raised in Alderney, one of the Channel
Islands. Alderneys are of a dun or tawny color and are often called
Jersey cattle. See Jersey, 3.

ALDINE
Al"dine, a. (Bibliog.)

Defn: An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) which
proceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, of
Venice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the sign
of the anchor and the dolphin. The term has also been applied to
certain elegant editions of English works.

ALDOL
Al"dol, n.  [Aldehyde + -ol as in alcohol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless liquid, C4H8O2, obtained by condensation of two
molecules of acetaldehyde: CH3CHO + CH3CHO = H3CH(OH)CH2CO; also, any
of various derivatives of this. The same reaction has been applied,
under the name of aldol condensation, to the production of many
compounds.

ALE
Ale, n. Etym: [AS. ealu, akin to Icel., Sw., and Dan. öl, Lith. alus
a kind of beer, OSlav. ol beer. Cf. Ir. ol drink, drinking.]

1. An intoxicating liquor made from an infusion of malt by
fermentation and the addition of a bitter, usually hops.

Note: The word ale, in England and the United States, usually
designates a heavier kind of fermented liquor, and the word beer a
lighter kind. The word beer is also in common use as the generic name
for all malt liquors.

2. A festival in English country places, so called from the liquor
drunk. "At wakes and ales." B. Jonson."On ember eves and holy ales."
Shak.

ALEAK
A*leak", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + leak.]

Defn: In a leaking condition.

ALEATORY
A"le*a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. aleatorius, fr. alea chance, die.] (Law)

Defn: Depending on some uncertain contingency; as, an aleatory
contract. Bouvier.

ALEBENCH
Ale"bench`, n.

Defn: A bench in or before an alehouse. Bunyan.

ALEBERRY
Ale"ber`ry, n. Etym: [OE. alebery, alebrey; ale + bre broth, fr. AS.
briw pottage.]

Defn: A beverage, formerly made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, and
sops of bread.
Their aleberries, caudles, possets. Beau. & Fl.

ALECITHAL
A*lec"i*thal, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which have
little or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm. Balfour.

ALECONNER
Ale"con`ner, n. Etym: [/Ale + con, OE. cunnen to test, AS. cunnian to
test. See Con.]

Defn: Orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale and
beer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London to
inspect the measures used in public houses. But the office is a
sinecure. [Also called aletaster.] [Eng.]

ALECOST
Ale"cost`, n. Etym: [Ale + L. costus an aromatic plant: cf.
Costmary.] (Bot.)

Defn: The plant costmary, which was formerly much used for flavoring
ale.

ALECTORIDES
Al`ec*tor"i*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of birds including the common fowl and the pheasants.

ALECTOROMACHY
A*lec`to*rom"a*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Cockfighting.

ALECTOROMANCY
A*lec"to*ro*man`cy, n.

Defn: See Alectryomancy.

ALECTRYOMACHY
A*lec`try*oma*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Cockfighting.

ALECTRYOMANCY
A*lec"try*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on the
letters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the order
in which the grains were eaten. Amer. Cyc.

ALEE
A*lee", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + lee.] (Naut.)

Defn: On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the
opposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed close
to the lee side. Hard alee, or Luff alee, an order to put the helm to
the lee side.

ALEGAR
Al"e*gar, n. Etym: [Ale + eager sour, F. aigre. Cf. Vinegar.]

Defn: Sour ale; vinegar made of ale. Cecil.

ALEGER
Al"e*ger, a. Etym: [F. allègre, earlier alègre, fr. L. alacer.]

Defn: Gay; cheerful; sprightly. [Obs.] Bacon.

ALEGGE
A*legge", v. t. Etym: [OE. aleggen, alegen, OF. alegier, F. alléger,
fr. LL. alleviare, for L. allevare to lighten; ad + levis light. Cf.
Alleviate, Allay, Allege.]

Defn: To allay or alleviate; to lighten. [Obs.]
That shall alegge this bitter blast. Spenser.

ALEHOOF
Ale"hoof`, n. Etym: [AS. h ground ivy; the first part is perh. a
corruption: cf. OE. heyhowe hedgehove,

ground ivy, "in old MSS. heyhowe, heyoue, haihoue, halehoue."
[Prior].

Defn: Ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma).

ALEHOUSE
Ale"house`, n.

Defn: A house where ale is retailed; hence, a tippling house.
Macaulay.

ALE-KNIGHT
Ale"-knight`, n.

Defn: A pot companion. [Obs.]

ALEM
Al"em, n. [Turk. 'alem, fr. Ar. 'alam.] (Mil.)

Defn: The imperial standard of the Turkish Empire.

ALEMANNIC
Al`e*man"nic, a.

Defn: Belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike German
tribes.

ALEMANNIC
Al`e*man"nic, n.

Defn: The language of the Alemanni.
The Swabian dialect . . . is known as the Alemannic. Amer. Cyc.

ALEMBIC
A*lem"bic, n. Etym: [F. alambic (cf. Sp. alambique), Ar. al-anbiq,
fr. Gr. alembic proper. Cf. Limbec.]

Defn: An apparatus formerly used in distillation, usually made of
glass or metal. It has mostly given place to the retort and worm
still.
Used also metaphorically. The alembic of a great poet's imagination.
Brimley.

ALEMBROTH
A*lem"broth, n. Etym: [Origin uncertain.]

Defn: The salt of wisdom of the alchemists, a double salt composed of
the chlorides of ammonium and mercury. It was formerly used as a
stimulant. Brande & C.

ALENCON LACE
A`len`con" lace".

Defn: See under Lace.

ALENGTH
A*length", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + length.]

Defn: At full length; lenghtwise. Chaucer.

ALEPIDOTE
A*lep"i*dote, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not having scales.
 -- n.

Defn: A fish without scales.

ALEPOLE
Ale"pole`, n.

Defn: A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse. [Obs.]

ALEPPO BOIL; ALEPPO BUTTON; ALEPPO EVIL
A*lep"po boil, button, or evil. (Med.)

Defn: A chronic skin affection terminating in an ulcer, most commonly
of the face. It is endemic along the Mediterranean, and is probably
due to a specific bacillus. Called also Aleppo ulcer, Biskara boil,
Delhi boil, Oriental sore, etc.

ALEPPO GRASS
Aleppo grass. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the cultivated forms of Andropogon Halepensis (syn.
Sorghum Halepense). See Andropogon, below.

ALERT
A*lert", a. Etym: [F. alerte, earlier à l'erte on the watch, fr. It.
all' erta on the watch, prop. (standing) on a height, where one can
look around; erta a declivity, steep, erto steep, p. p. of ergere,
erigere, to erect, raise, L. erigere. See Erect.]

1. Watchful; vigilant; active in vigilance.

2. Brisk; nimble; moving with celerity.
An alert young fellow. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Active; agile; lively; quick; prompt.

ALERT
A*lert", n. (Mil.)

Defn: An alarm from a real or threatened attack; a sudden attack;
also, a bugle sound to give warning. "We have had an alert." Farrow.
On the alert, on the lookout or watch against attack or danger; ready
to act.

ALERTLY
A*lert"ly, adv.

Defn: In an alert manner; nimbly.

ALERTNESS
A*lert"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness;
nimbleness; activity.

ALE SILVER
Ale" sil`ver.

Defn: A duty payable to the lord mayor of London by the sellers of
ale within the city.

ALESTAKE
Ale"stake, n.

Defn: A stake or pole projecting from, or set up before, an alehouse,
as a sign; an alepole. At the end was commonly suspended a garland, a
bunch of leaves, or a "bush." [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALETASTER
Ale"tast`er, n.

Defn: See Aleconner. [Eng.]

ALETHIOLOGY
A*le`thi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science which treats of the nature of truth and evidence.
Sir W. Hamilton.

ALETHOSCOPE
A*leth"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An instrument for viewing pictures by means of a lens, so as to
present them in their natural proportions and relations.

ALEUROMANCY
A*leu"ro*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. aleuromancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of flour. Encyc. Brit.

ALEUROMETER
Al`eu*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for determining the expansive properties, or
quality, of gluten in flour. Knight.

ALEURONAT
A*leu"ro*nat, n. [See Aleurone.]

Defn: Flour made of aleurone, used as a substitute for ordinary flour
in preparing bread for diabetic persons.

ALEURONE
A*leu"rone, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An albuminoid substance which occurs in minute grains ("protein
granules") in maturing seeds and tubers; -- supposed to be a
modification of protoplasm.

ALEURONIC
Al`eu*ron"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the nature of aleurone. D. C. Eaton.

ALEUTIAN; ALEUTIC
A*leu"tian, A*leu"tic, a. Etym: [Said to be from the Russ. aleut a
bold rock.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chain of islands between Alaska and
Kamtchatka; also, designating these islands.

ALEVIN
Al"e*vin, n. Etym: [F. alevin, OF. alever to rear, fr. L. ad + levare
to raise.]

Defn: Young fish; fry.

ALEW
A*lew", n.

Defn: Halloo. [Obs.] Spenser.

ALEWIFE
Ale"wife`, n.; pl. Alewives.

Defn: A woman who keeps an alehouse. Gay.

ALEWIFE
Ale"wife`, n.; pl. Alewives. Etym: [This word is properly aloof, the
Indian name of a fish. See Winthrop on the culture of maize in
America, "Phil Trans." No. 142, p. 1065, and Baddam's "Memoirs," vol.
ii. p. 131.]Etym: (Zoöl.)

Defn: A North American fish (Clupea vernalis) of the Herring family.
It is called also ellwife, ellwhop, branch herring. The name is
locally applied to other related species.

ALEXANDERS; ALISANDERS
Al`ex*an"ders, Al`i*san"ders, n. Etym: [OE. alisaundre, OF.
alissandere, fr. Alexander or Alexandria.] (Bot)

Defn: A name given to two species of the genus Smyrnium, formerly
cultivated and used as celery now is; -- called also horse parsely.

ALEXANDRIAN
Al`ex*an"dri*an, a.

1. Of or pertaining to Alexandria in Egypt; as, the Alexandrian
library.

2. Applied to a kind of heroic verse. See Alexandrine, n.

ALEXANDRINE
Al`ex*an"drine, a.

Defn: Belonging to Alexandria; Alexandrian. Bancroft.

ALEXANDRINE
Al`ex*an"drine, n. Etym: [F. alexandrin.]

Defn: A kind of verse consisting in English of twelve syllables.
The needless Alexandrine ends the song, That, like a wounded snake,
drags its slow length along. Pope.

ALEXIA
A*lex"i*a, n. [NL.; a- not + Gr.  speech, fr.  to speak, confused
with L. legere to read.] (Med.)
 (a) As used by some, inability to read aloud, due to brain disease.
 (b) More commonly, inability, due to brain disease, to understand
written or printed symbols although they can be seen, as in case of
word blindness.

ALEXIPHARMAC; ALEXIPHARMACAL
A*lex`i*phar"mac, A*lex`i*phar"ma*cal, a. & n. Etym: [See
Alexipharmic.]

Defn: Alexipharmic. [Obs.]

ALEXIPHARMIC
A*lex`i*phar"mic, n. (Med.)

Defn: An antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.

ALEXIPHARMIC; ALEXIPHARMICAL
A*lex`i*phar"mic, A*lex`i*phar"mic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. alexipharmaque.]
(Med.)

Defn: Expelling or counteracting poison; antidotal.

ALEXIPYRETIC
A*lex`i*py*ret"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Serving to drive off fever; antifebrile.
 -- n.

Defn: A febrifuge.

ALEXITERIC
A*lex`i*ter"ic, n. Etym: [Gr. alexitère, LL. alexiterium.] (Med.)

Defn: A preservative against contagious and infectious diseases, and
the effects of poison in general. Brande & C.

ALEXITERIC; ALEXITERICAL
A*lex`i*ter"ic, A*lex`i*ter"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. alexitère.] (med.)

Defn: Resisting poison; obviating the effects of venom; alexipharmic.

ALFA ; ALFA GRASS
Al"fa or Al"fa grass", n.

Defn: A plant (Macrochloa tenacissima) of North Africa; also, its
fiber, used in paper making.

ALFALFA
Al*fal"fa, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Bot.)

Defn: The lucern (Medicago sativa); -- so called in California,
Texas, etc.

ALFENIDE
Al"fe*nide, n. (Metal.)

Defn: An alloy of nickel and silver electroplated with silver.

ALFERES
Al*fe"res, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. Ar. al-fars knight.]

Defn: An ensign; a standard bearer. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.

ALFET
Al"fet, n. Etym: [LL. alfetum, fr. AS. alfæt a pot to boil in; al
burning + fæt vat.]

Defn: A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plunged
his forearm as a test of innocence or guilt.

ALFILARIA
Al*fil`a*ri"a, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.

ALFILERIA; ALFILERILLA
Al*fil`e*ri"a, Al*fil`e*ril"la, n. [Mex. Sp., fr. Sp. alfiler pin.]

Defn: Same as Alfilaria.

ALFIONE
Al`fi*o"ne, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edible marine fish of California (Rhacochilus toxotes).

ALFORJA
Al*for"ja, n. [Also alfarga, alforge.] [Sp.]

Defn: A saddlebag. [Sp. Amer.]

ALFRESCO
Al*fres"co, adv. & a. Etym: [It. al fresco in or on the fresh.]

Defn: In the open-air. Smollett.

ALGA
Al"ga, n.; pl. Algæ. Etym: [L., seaweed.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plants
which includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse,
sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervæ, etc.

ALGAL
Al"gal, a., (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, algæ.

ALGAROBA
Al`ga*ro"ba, n. Etym: [Sp. algarroba, fr. Ar. al-kharr. Cf. Carob.]
(Bot.)
(a) The Carob, a leguminous tree of the Mediterranean region; also,
its edible beans or pods, called St. John's bread.
(b) The Honey mesquite (Prosopis juliflora), a small tree found from
California to Buenos Ayres; also, its sweet, pulpy pods. A valuable
gum, resembling gum arabic, is collected from the tree in Texas and
Mexico.

ALGAROT; ALGAROTH
Al"ga*rot, Al"ga*roth, n. Etym: [F. algaroth, fr. the name of the
inventor, Algarotti.] (Med.)

Defn: A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which is
a compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony. It was formerly
used in medicine as an emetic, purgative, and diaphoretic.

ALGAROVILLA
Al`ga*ro*vil"la, n.

Defn: The agglutinated seeds and husks of the legumes of a South
American tree (Inga Marthæ). It is valuable for tanning leather, and
as a dye.

ALGATE; ALGATES
Al"gate, Al"gates, adv. Etym: [All + gate way. The s is an adverbial
ending. See Gate.]

1. Always; wholly; everywhere. [Obs.]
Ulna now he algates must forego. Spenser.

Note: Still used in the north of England in the sense of
"everywhere."

2. By any or means; at all events. [Obs.] Fairfax.

3. Notwithstanding; yet. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALGAZEL
Al"ga*zel`, n. Etym: [Ar. al the + ghazal.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The true gazelle.

ALGEBRA
Al"ge*bra, n. Etym: [LL. algebra, fr. Ar. al-jebr reduction of parts
to a whole, or fractions to whole numbers, fr. jabara to bind
together, consolidate; al-jebr w'almuqabalah reduction and comparison
(by equations): cf. F. algèbre, It. & Sp. algebra.]

1. (Math.)

Defn: That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations and
properties of quantity by means of letters and other symbols. It is
applicable to those relations that are true of every kind of
magnitude.

2. A treatise on this science.

ALGEBRAIC; ALGEBRAICAL
Al`ge*bra"ic, Al`ge*bra"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to algebra; containing an operation of
algebra, or deduced from such operation; as, algebraic characters;
algebraical writings. Algebraic curve, a curve such that the equation
which expresses the relation between the coördinates of its points
involves only the ordinary operations of algebra; -- opposed to a
transcendental curve.

ALGEBRAICALLY
Al`ge*bra"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By algebraic process.

ALGEBRAIST
Al"ge*bra`ist, n.

Defn: One versed in algebra.

ALGEBRAIZE
Al"ge*bra*ize, v. t.

Defn: To perform by algebra; to reduce to algebraic form.

ALGERIAN
Al*ge"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Algeria.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Algeria.

ALGERINE
Al`ge*rine", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Algiers or Algeria.

ALGERINE
Al`ge*rine", n.

Defn: A native or one of the people of Algiers or Algeria. Also, a
pirate.

ALGID
Al"gid, a. Etym: [L. algidus cold, fr. algere to be cold: cf. F.
algide.]

Defn: Cold; chilly. Bailey. Algid cholera (Med.), Asiatic cholera.

ALGIDITY
Al*gid"i*ty, n.

Defn: Chilliness; coldness; especially (Med.),

Defn: coldness and collapse.

ALGIDNESS
Al"gid*ness, n.

Defn: Algidity. [Obs.]

ALGIFIC
Al*gif"ic, a. Etym: [L. algificus, fr. algus cold + facere to make.]

Defn: Producing cold.

ALGIN
Al"gin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous substance resembling gelatin, obtained from
certain algæ.

ALGOID
Al"goid, a. Etym: [L. alga + -oid.]

Defn: Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga.

ALGOL
Al"gol, n. Etym: [Ar. al-gh destruction, calamity, fr. ghala to take
suddenly, destroy.] (Astron.)

Defn: A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus,
remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness.

ALGOLOGICAL
Al`go*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to algology; as, algological specimens.

ALGOLOGIST
Al*gol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One learned about algæ; a student of algology.

ALGOLOGY
Al*gol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. alga seaweed + -logy.] (Bot.)

Defn: The study or science of algæ or seaweeds.

ALGOMETER
Al*gom"e*ter, n. [Gr.  pain + -meter.] (Psychol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring sensations of pain due to pressure.
It has a piston rod with a blunted tip which is pressed against the
skin. -- Al*gom"e*try (#), n. -- Al`go*met"ric (#), *met"ric*al (#),
a. --Al`go*met"ric*al*ly, adv.

ALGONKIAN
Al*gon"ki*an, a.

1. Var. of Algonquian.

2.  (Geol.) Pertaining to or designating a period or era recognized
by the United States Geological Survey and some other authorities,
between the Archæan and the Paleozoic, from both of which it is
generally separated in the record by unconformities. Algonkian rocks
are both sedimentary and igneous. Although fossils are rare, life
certainly existed in this period. -- n.

Defn: The Algonkian period or era, or system or group of systems.

ALGONQUIAN
Al*gon"qui*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to or designating the most extensive of the
linguistic families of North American Indians, their territory
formerly including practically all of Canada east of the 115th
meridian and south of Hudson's Bay and the part of the United States
east of the Mississippi and north of Tennessee and Virginia, with the
exception of the territory occupied by the northern Iroquoian tribes.
There are nearly 100,000 Indians of the Algonquian tribes, of which
the strongest are the Ojibwas (Chippewas), Ottawas, Crees,
Algonquins, Micmacs, and Blackfeet. -- n.

Defn: An Algonquian Indian.

ALGONQUIN; ALGONKIN
Al*gon"quin, Al*gon"kin, n.

Defn: One of a widely spread family of Indians, including many
distinct tribes, which formerly occupied most of the northern and
eastern part of North America. The name was originally applied to a
group of Indian tribes north of the River St. Lawrence.

ALGOR
Al"gor, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: Cold; chilliness.

ALGORISM; ALGORITHM
Al"go*rism, Al"go*rithm, n. Etym: [OE. algorism, algrim, augrim, OF.
algorisme, F. algorithme (cf. Sp. algoritmo, OSp. alguarismo, LL.
algorismus), fr. the Ar. al-Khowarezmi of Khowarezm, the modern
Khiwa, surname of Abu Ja'far Mohammed ben Musa, author of a work on
arithmetic early in the 9th century, which was translated into Latin,
such books bearing the name algorismus. The spelling with th is due
to a supposed connection with Gr.

1. The art of calculating by nine figures and zero.

2. The art of calculating with any species of notation; as, the
algorithms of fractions, proportions, surds, etc.

ALGOUS
Al"gous, a. Etym: [L. algosus, fr. alga seaweed.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the algæ, or seaweeds; abounding with, or
like, seaweed.

ALGUAZIL
Al`gua*zil", n. Etym: [Sp. alguacil, fr. Ar. alwazir the vizier. Cf.
Vizier.]

Defn: An inferior officer of justice in Spain; a warrant officer; a
constable. Prescott.

ALGUM
Al"gum, n.

Defn: Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable). 2 Chron. ii. 8.

ALHAMBRA
Al*ham"bra, n. Etym: [Ultimately fr. Ar. al the + hamra red; i. e.,
the red (sc. house).]

Defn: The palace of the Moorish kings at Granada.

ALHAMBRAIC; ALHAMBRESQUE
Al`ham*bra"ic, Al`ham*bresque", a.

Defn: Made or decorated after the fanciful style of the ornamentation
in the Alhambra, which affords an unusually fine exhibition of
Saracenic or Arabesque architecture.

ALHENNA
Al*hen"na, n.

Defn: See Henna.

ALIAS
A"li*as, adv. Etym: [L., fr. alius. See Else.] (Law)
(a) Otherwise; otherwise called; -- a term used in legal proceedings
to connect the different names of any one who has gone by two or
more, and whose true name is for any cause doubtful; as, Smith, alias
Simpson.
(b) At another time.

ALIAS
A"li*as, n.; pl. Aliases. Etym: [L., otherwise, at another
time.]Etym: (Law)
(a) A second or further writ which is issued after a first writ has
expired without effect.
(b) Another name; an assumed name.

ALIBI
Al"i*bi, n. Etym: [L., elsewhere, at another place. See Alias.] (Law)

Defn: The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for a
crime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place when
the alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove an
alibi.

ALIBILITY
Al`i*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Quality of being alible.

ALIBLE
Al"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. alibilis, fr. alere to nourish.]

Defn: Nutritive; nourishing.

ALICANT
Al"i*cant, n.

Defn: A kind of wine, formerly much esteemed; -- said to have been
made near Alicant, in Spain. J. Fletcher.

ALIDADE
Al"i*dade, n. Etym: [LL. alidada, alhidada, fr. Ar. al-'idada a sort
of rule: cf. F. alidade.]

Defn: The portion of a graduated instrument, as a quadrant or
astrolabe, carrying the sights or telescope, and showing the degrees
cut off on the arc of the instrument Whewell.

ALIEN
Al"ien, a. Etym: [OF. alien, L. alienus, fr. alius another; properly,
therefore, belonging to another. See Else.]

1. Not belonging to the same country, land, or government, or to the
citizens or subjects thereof; foreign; as, alien subjects, enemies,
property, shores.

2. Wholly different in nature; foreign; adverse; inconsistent (with);
incongruous; -- followed by from or sometimes by to; as, principles
alien from our religion.
An alien sound of melancholy. Wordsworth.
Alien enemy (Law), one who owes allegiance to a government at war
with ours. Abbott.

ALIEN
Al"ien, n.

1. A foreigner; one owing allegiance, or belonging, to another
country; a foreign-born resident of a country in which he does not
posses the privileges of a citizen. Hence, a stranger. See Alienage.

2. One excluded from certain privileges; one alienated or estranged;
as, aliens from God's mercies.
Aliens from the common wealth of Israel. Ephes. ii. 12.

ALIEN
Al"ien, v. t. Etym: [F. aliéner, L. alienare.]

Defn: To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property or
ownership. [R.] "It the son alien lands." Sir M. Hale.
The prince was totally aliened from all thoughts of . . . the
marriage. Clarendon.

ALIENABILITY
Al`ien*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being alienated. "The alienability of the
domain." Burke.

ALIENABLE
Al"ien*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aliénable.]

Defn: Capable of being alienated, sold, or transferred to another;
as, land is alienable according to the laws of the state.

ALIENAGE
Al"ien*age, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aliénage.]

1. The state or legal condition of being an alien.

Note: The disabilities of alienage are removable by naturalization or
by special license from the State of residence, and in some of the
United States by declaration of intention of naturalization. Kent.
Wharton.
Estates forfeitable on account of alienage. Story.

2. The state of being alienated or transferred to another. Brougham.

ALIENATE
Al"ien*ate, a. Etym: [L. alienatus, p. p. of alienare, fr. alienus.
See Alien, and cf. Aliene.]

Defn: Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from.
O alienate from God. Milton.

ALIENATE
Al"ien*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alienated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alienating.]

1. To convey or transfer to another, as title, property, or right; to
part voluntarily with ownership of.

2. To withdraw, as the affections; to make indifferent of averse,
where love or friendship before subsisted; to estrange; to wean; --
with from.
The errors which . . . alienated a loyal gentry and priesthood from
the House of Stuart. Macaulay.
The recollection of his former life is a dream that only the more
alienates him from the realities of the present. I. Taylor.

ALIENATE
Al"ien*ate, n.

Defn: A stranger; an alien. [Obs.]

ALIENATION
Al`ien*a"tion, n. Etym: [F. aliénation, L. alienatio, fr. alienare,
fr. alienare. See Alienate.]

1. The act of alienating, or the state of being alienated.

2. (Law)

Defn: A transfer of title, or a legal conveyance of property to
another.

3. A withdrawing or estrangement, as of the affections.
The alienation of his heart from the king. Bacon.

4. Mental alienation; derangement of the mental faculties; insanity;
as, alienation of mind.

Syn.
 -- Insanity; lunacy; madness; derangement; aberration; mania;
delirium; frenzy; dementia; monomania. See Insanity.

ALIENATOR
Al"ien*a"tor, n.

Defn: One who alienates.

ALIENE
Al*iene, v. t.

Defn: To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to
aliene an estate.

ALIENEE
Al"ien*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: One to whom the title of property is transferred; -- opposed to
alienor.
It the alienee enters and keeps possession. Blackstone.

ALIENISM
Al"ien*ism, n.

1. The status or legal condition of an alien; alienage.
The law was very gentle in the construction of the disability of
alienism. Kent.

2. The study or treatment of diseases of the mind.

ALIENIST
Al"ien*ist, n. Etym: [F. aliéniste.]

Defn: One who treats diseases of the mind. Ed. Rev.

ALIENOR
Al`ien*or", n. Etym: [OF. aliéneur.]

Defn: One who alienates or transfers property to another. Blackstone.

ALIETHMOID; ALIETHMOIDAL
Al`i*eth"moid, Al`i*eth*moid"al, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E.
ethomoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to expansions of the ethmoid bone or

ALIFE
A*life", adv. Etym: [Cf. lief dear.]

Defn: On my life; dearly. [Obs.] "I love that sport alife." Beau. &
Fl.

ALIFEROUS
A*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + -ferous.]

Defn: Having wings, winged; aligerous. [R.]

ALIFORM
Al"i*form, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + -form.]

Defn: Wing-shaped; winglike.

ALIGEROUS
A*lig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. aliger; ala wing + gerere to carry.]

Defn: Having wings; winged. [R.]

ALIGHT
A*light", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Alighted sometimes Alit; p. pr. & vb.
n. Alighting.] Etym: [OE. alihten, fr. AS. alihtan; pref. a- (cf.
Goth. us-, G. er-, orig. meaning out) + lihtan, to alight, orig. to
render light, to remove a burden from, fr. liht, leoht, light. See
Light, v. i.]

1. To spring down, get down, or descend, as from on horseback or from
a carriage; to dismount.

2. To descend and settle, lodge, rest, or stop; as, a flying bird
alights on a tree; snow alights on a roof.

3. To come or chance (upon). [R.]

ALIGHT
A*light", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + light.]

Defn: Lighted; lighted up; in a flame. "The lamps were alight."
Dickens.

ALIGN
A*lign", v. t. Etym: [F. aligner; à (L. ad) + ligne (L. linea) line.
See Line, and cf. Allineate.]

Defn: To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring
into line; to aline.

ALIGN
A*lign", v. t.

Defn: To form in line; to fall into line.

ALIGNMENT
A*lign"ment, n. Etym: [F. alignement.]

1. The act of adjusting to a line; arrangement in a line or lines;
the state of being so adjusted; a formation in a straight line; also,
the line of adjustment; esp., an imaginary line to regulate the
formation of troops or of a squadron.

2. (Engin.)

Defn: The ground-plan of a railway or other road, in distinction from
the grades or profile.

ALIKE
A*like", a. Etym: [AS. onlic, gelic; pref. a + like.]

Defn: Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference.
[Now used only predicatively.]
The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. Ps. cxxxix. 12.

ALIKE
A*like", adv. Etym: [AS. gelice, onlice.]

Defn: In the same manner, form, or degree; in common; equally; as, we
are all alike concerne.

ALIKE-MINDED
A*like"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Like-minded. [Obs.]

ALIMENT
Al"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. alimentum, fr. alere to nourish; akin to
Goth. alan to grow, Icel. ala to nourish: cf. F. aliment. See Old.]

1. That which nourishes; food; nutriment; anything which feeds or
adds to a substance in natural growth. Hence: The necessaries of life
generally: sustenance; means of support.
Aliments of theiBacon.

2. An allowance for maintenance. [Scot.]

ALIMENT
Al"i*ment, v. t.

1. To nourish; to support.

2. To provide for the maintenance of. [Scot.]

ALIMENTAL
Al`i*men"tal, a.

Defn: Supplying food; having the quality of nourishing; furnishing
the materials for natural growth; as, alimental sap.

ALIMENTALLY
A`li*men"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality. Sir
T. Browne.

ALIMENTARINESS
Al`i*men"ta*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality. [R.]

ALIMENTARY
Al`i*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. alimentarius, fr. alimentum: cf. F.
alimentaire.]

Defn: Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition;
nutritious; alimental; as, alimentary substances. Alimentary canal,
the entire channel, extending from the mouth to the anus, by which
aliments are conveyed through the body, and the useless parts
ejected.

ALIMENTATION
Al`i*men*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alimentation, LL. alimentatio.]

1. The act or process of affording nutriment; the function of the
alimentary canal.

2. State or mode of being nourished. Bacon.

ALIMENTIVENESS
Al`i*men"tive*ness, n.

Defn: The instinct or faculty of appetite for food. [Chiefly in
Phrenol.]

ALIMONIOUS
Al`i*mo"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Affording food; nourishing. [R.] "Alimonious humors." Harvey.

ALIMONY
Al"i*mo*ny, n. Etym: [L. alimonia, alimonium, nourishment,
sustenance, fr. alere to nourish.]

1. Maintenance; means of living.

2. (Law)

Defn: An allowance made to a wife out of her husband's estate or
income for her support, upon her divorce or legal separation from
him, or during a suit for the same. Wharton. Burrill.

ALINASAL
Al`i*na"sal, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E. nasal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage.

ALINE
A*line", v. t.

Defn: To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align.
Evelyn.

ALINEATION
A*lin`e*a"tion, n.

Defn: See Allineation.

ALINEMENT
A*line"ment, n.

Defn: Same as Alignment.

Note: [The Eng. form alinement is preferable to alignment, a bad
spelling of the French]. New Eng. Dict. (Murray).

ALINER
A*lin"er, n.

Defn: One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them into
line. Evelyn.

ALIOTH
Al"i*oth, n. Etym: [Ar. alyat the tail of a fat sheep.] (Astron.)

Defn: A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl in
the Dipper.

ALIPED
Al"i*ped, a. Etym: [L. alipes; ala wing + pes, pedis, foot: cf. F.
alipède.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Wing-footed, as the bat.
 -- n.

Defn: An animal whose toes are connected by a membrane, serving for a
wing, as the bat.

ALIPHATIC
Al`i*phat"ic, a. [Gr. , , oil, fat.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, fat; fatty; -- applied to
compounds having an openc-hain structure. The aliphatic compounds
thus include not only the fatty acids and other derivatives of the
paraffin hydrocarbons, but also unsaturated compounds, as the
ethylene and acetylene series.

ALIQUANT
Al"i*quant, a. Etym: [L. aliquantus some, moderate; alius other +
quantus how great: cf. F. aliquante.] (Math.)

Defn: An aliquant part of a number or quantity is one which does not
divide it without leaving a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquant part of
16. Opposed to aliquot.

ALIQUOT
Al"i*quot, a. Etym: [L. aliquot some, several; alius other + quot how
many: cf. F. aliquote.] (Math.)

Defn: An aliquot part of a number or quantity is one which will
divide it without a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquot part of 15.
Opposed to aliquant.

ALISEPTAL
Al`i*sep"tal, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E. septal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Relating to expansions of the nasal septum.

ALISH
Al"ish, a.

Defn: Like ale; as, an alish taste.

ALISPHENOID
Al`i*sphe"noid, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The alisphenoid bone.

ALISPHENOID; ALISPHENOIDAL
Al`i*sphe"noid, Al`i*sphe*noid"al, a. Etym: [L. ala wing + E.
sphenoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to or forming the wing of the sphenoid; relating to
a bone in the base of the skull, which in the adult is often
consolidated with the sphenoid; as, alisphenoid bone; alisphenoid
canal.

ALITRUNK
Al"i*trunk, n. Etym: [L. ala wing + truncus trunk.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The segment of the body of an insect to which the wings are
attached; the thorax. Kirby.

ALITURGICAL
Al`i*tur"gic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + liturgical.] (Eccl.)

Defn: Applied to those days when the holy sacrifice is not offered.
Shipley.

ALIUNDE
A`li*un"de, adv. & a. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: From another source; from elsewhere; as, a case proved aliunde;
evidence aliunde.

ALIVE
A*live", a. Etym: [OE. on live, AS. on life in life; life being dat.
of lif life. See Life, and cf. Live, a.]

1. Having life, in opposition to dead; living; being in a state in
which the organs perform their functions; as, an animal or a plant
which is alive.

2. In a state of action; in force or operation; unextinguished;
unexpired; existent; as, to keep the fire alive; to keep the
affections alive.

3. Exhibiting the activity and motion of many living beings;
swarming; thronged.
The Boyne, for a quarter of a mile, was alive with muskets and green
boughs. Macaulay.

4. Sprightly; lively; brisk. Richardson.

5. Having susceptibility; easily impressed; having lively feelings,
as opposed to apathy; sensitive.
Tremblingly alive to nature's laws. Falconer.

6. Of all living (by way of emphasis).
Northumberland was the proudest man alive. Clarendon.

Note: Used colloquially as an intensive; as, man alive!

Note: Alive always follows the noun which it qualifies.

ALIZARI
A`li*za"ri, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. Ar. 'a juice extracted from a plant,
fr. 'a to press.] (Com.)

Defn: The madder of the Levant. Brande & C.

ALIZARIN
A*liz"a*rin, n. Etym: [F. alizarine, fr. alizari.] (Chem.)

Defn: A coloring principle, C14H6O2(OH)2, found in madder, and now
produced artificially from anthracene. It produces the Turkish reds.

ALKAHEST
Al"ka*hest, n. Etym: [LL. alchahest, F. alcahest, a word that has an
Arabic appearance, but was probably arbitrarily formed by
Paracelsus.]

Defn: The fabled "universal solvent" of the alchemists; a menstruum
capable of dissolving all bodies.
 -- Al`ka*hes"tic, a.

ALKALAMIDE
Al`kal*am"ide, n. Etym: [Alkali + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a series of compounds that may be regarded as ammonia in
which a part of the hydrogen has been replaced by basic, and another
part by acid, atoms or radicals.

ALKALESCENCE; ALKALESCENCY
Al`ka*les`cence, Al`ka*les"cen*cy, n.

Defn: A tendency to become alkaline; or the state of a substance in
which alkaline properties begin to be developed, or to predominant.
Ure.

ALKALESCENT
Al`ka*les"cent, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalescent.]

Defn: Tending to the properties of an alkali; slightly alkaline.

ALKALI
Al"ka*li, n.; pl. Alkalis or Alkalies. Etym: [F. alcali, ultimately
fr. Ar. alqali ashes of the plant saltwort, fr. qalay to roast in a
pan, fry.]

1. Soda ash; caustic soda, caustic potash, etc.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of caustic bases, such as soda, potash, ammoma,
and lithia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are solubility in
alcohol and water, uniting with oils and fats to form soap,
neutralizing and forming salts with acids, turning to brown several
vegetable yellows, and changing reddened litmus to blue. Fixed
alkalies, potash and soda.
 -- Vegetable alkalies. Same as Alkaloids.
 -- Volatile alkali, ammonia, so called in distinction from the fixed
alkalies.

ALKALIFIABLE
Al"ka*li*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalifiable.]

Defn: Capable of being alkalified, or converted into an alkali.

ALKALI FLAT
Alkali flat.

Defn: A sterile plain, containing an excess of alkali, at the bottom
of an undrained basin in an arid region; a playa.

ALKALIFY
Al"ka*li*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alkalified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alkalifying.] Etym: [Alkali + -fly: cf. F. alcalifier.]

Defn: To convert into an alkali; to give alkaline properties to.

ALKALIFY
Al"ka*li*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become changed into an alkali.

ALKALIMETER
Al`ka*lim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Alkali + -meter. cf. F. alcalimètre.]

Defn: An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or the
quantity of alkali in a mixture.

ALKALIMETRIC; ALKALIMETRICAL
Al`ka*li*met"ric, Al`ka*li*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to alkalimetry.

ALKALIMETRY
Al`ka*lim"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalimètrie.] (Chem.)

Defn: The art or process of ascertaining the strength of alkalies, or
the quantity present in alkaline mixtures.

ALKALINE
Al"ka*line, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalin.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having the
properties of an alkali. Alkaline earths, certain substances, as
lime, baryta, strontia, and magnesia, possessing some of the
qualities of alkalies.
 -- Alkaline metals, potassium, sodium, cæsium, lithium, rubidium.
 -- Alkaline reaction, a reaction indicating alkalinity, as by the
action on limits, turmeric, etc.

ALKALINITY
Al`ka*lin"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality which constitutes an alkali; alkaline property.
Thomson.

ALKALIOUS
Al*ka"li*ous, a.

Defn: Alkaline. [Obs.]

ALKALI SOIL
Alkali soil.

Defn: Any one of various soils found in arid and semiarid regions,
containing an unusual amount of soluble mineral salts which
effloresce in the form of a powder or crust (usually white) in dry
weather following rains or irrigation. The basis of these salts is
mainly soda with a smaller amount of potash, and usually a little
lime and  magnesia. Two main classes of alkali are commonly
distinguished: black alkali, which may be any alkaline carbonate, but
which practically consists of sodium carbonate (sal soda), which is
highly corrosive and destructive to vegetation; and white alkali,
characterized by the presence of sodium sulphate (Glauber's salt),
which is less injurious to vegetation. Black alkali is so called
because water containing it dissolves humus, forming a dark-colored
solution which, when it collects in puddles and evaporates, produces
characteristic black spots.

ALKALI WASTE
Alkali waste.

Defn: Waste material from the manufacture of alkali; specif., soda
waste.

ALKALIZATE
Al"ka*li*zate, a.

Defn: Alkaline. [Obs.] Boyle.

ALKALIZATE
Al"ka*li**zate, v. t.

Defn: To alkalizate. [R.] Johnson.

ALKALIZATION
Al`ka*li*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alcalisation.]

Defn: The act rendering alkaline by impregnating with an alkali; a
conferring of alkaline qualities.

ALKALIZE
Al"ka*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alkalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alkalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. alcaliser.]

Defn: To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkali
to.

ALKALOID
Al"ka*loid, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base, especially one of a class of substances
occurring ready formed in the tissues of plants and the bodies of
animals.

Note: Alcaloids all contain nitrogen, carbon, and hydrogen, and many
of them also contain oxygen. They include many of the active
principles in plants; thus, morphine and narcotine are alkaloids
found in opium.

ALKALOID; ALKALOIDAL
Al"ka*loid, Al`ka*loid"al, a. Etym: [Alkali + -oid: cf. F.
alcaloïde.]

Defn: Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, alkali.

ALKANET
Al"ka*net, n. Etym: [Dim. of Sp. alcana, alhe, in which al is the Ar.
article. See Henna, and cf. Orchanet.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A dyeing matter extracted from the roots of Alkanna tinctoria,
which gives a fine deep red color.

2. (Bot.)
(a) A boraginaceous herb (Alkanna tinctoria) yielding the dye;
orchanet.
(b) The similar plant Anchusa officinalis; bugloss; also, the
American puccoon.

ALKARGEN
Al*kar"gen, n. Etym: [Alkarsin + oxygen.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Cacodylic acid.

ALKARSIN
Al*kar"sin, n. Etym: [Alkali + arsenic + -in.] (Chem.)

Defn: A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor,
and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called also
Cadel's fuming liquid.

ALKAZAR
Al*ka"zar.

Defn: See Alcazar.

ALKEKENGI
Al`ke*ken"gi, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alkékenge, Sp. alquequenje, ultimately
fr. Ar. al-kakanj a kind of resin from Herat.] (Bot.)

Defn: An herbaceous plant of the nightshade family (Physalis
alkekengi) and its fruit, which is a well flavored berry, the size of
a cherry, loosely inclosed in a enlarged leafy calyx; -- also called
winter cherry, ground cherry, and strawberry tomato. D. C. Eaton.

ALKERMES
Al*ker"mes, n. Etym: [Ar. al-qirmiz kermes. See Kermes.] (Old
Pharmacy)

Defn: A compound cordial, in the form of a confection, deriving its
name from the kermes insect, its principal ingredient.

ALKORAN
Al"ko*ran, n.

Defn: The Mohammedan Scriptures. Same as Alcoran and Koran.

ALKORANIC
Al`ko*ran"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Alcoranic.

ALKORANIST
Al`ko*ran"ist, n.

Defn: Same as Alcoranist.

ALL
All, a. Etym: [OE. al, pl. alle, AS. eal, pl. ealle, Northumbrian
alle, akin to D. & OHG. al, Ger. all, Icel. allr. Dan. al, Sw. all,
Goth. alls; and perh. to Ir. and Gael. uile, W. oll.]

1. The whole quantity, extent, duration, amount, quality, or degree
of; the whole; the whole number of; any whatever; every; as, all the
wheat; all the land; all the year; all the strength; all happiness;
all abundance; loss of all power; beyond all doubt; you will see us
all (or all of us).
Prove all things: hold fast that which is good. 1 Thess. v. 21.

2. Any. [Obs.] "Without all remedy." Shak.

Note: When the definite article "the," or a possessive or a
demonstrative pronoun, is joined to the noun that all qualifies, all
precedes the article or the pronoun; as, all the cattle; all my
labor; all his wealth; all our families; all your citizens; all their
property; all other joys.

Note: This word, not only in popular language, but in the Scriptures,
often signifies, indefinitely, a large portion or number, or a great
part. Thus, all the cattle in Egypt died, all Judea and all the
region round about Jordan, all men held John as a prophet, are not to
be understood in a literal sense, but as including a large part, or
very great numbers.

3. Only; alone; nothing but.
I was born to speak all mirth and no matter. Shak.
All the whole, the whole (emphatically). [Obs.] "All the whole army."
Shak.

ALL
All, adv.

1. Wholly; completely; altogether; entirely; quite; very; as, all
bedewed; my friend is all for amusement. "And cheeks all pale."
Byron.

Note: In the ancient phrases, all too dear, all too much, all so
long, etc., this word retains its appropriate sense or becomes
intensive.

2. Even; just. (Often a mere intensive adjunct.) [Obs. or Poet.]
All as his straying flock he fed. Spenser.
A damsel lay deploring All on a rock reclined. Gay.
All to, or All-to. In such phrases as "all to rent," "all to break,"
"all-to frozen," etc., which are of frequent occurrence in our old
authors, the all and the to have commonly been regarded as forming a
compound adverb, equivalent in meaning to entirely, completely,
altogether. But the sense of entireness lies wholly in the word all
(as it does in "all forlorn," and similar expressions), and the to
properly belongs to the following word, being a kind of intensive
prefix (orig. meaning asunder and answering to the LG. ter-, HG. zer-
). It is frequently to be met with in old books, used without the
all. Thus Wyclif says, "The vail of the temple was to rent:" and of
Judas, "He was hanged and to-burst the middle:" i. e., burst in two,
or asunder.
 -- All along. See under Along.
 -- All and some, individually and collectively, one and all. [Obs.]
"Displeased all and some." Fairfax.
 -- All but. (a) Scarcely; not even. [Obs.] Shak. (b) Almost; nearly.
"The fine arts were all but proscribed." Macaulay.
 -- All hollow, entirely, completely; as, to beat any one all hollow.
[Low] -- All one, the same thing in effect; that is, wholly the same
thing.
 -- All over, over the whole extent; thoroughly; wholly; as, she is
her mother all over. [Colloq.] -- All the better, wholly the better;
that is, better by the whole difference.
 -- All the same, nevertheless. "There they [certain phenomena]
remain rooted all the same, whether we recognize them or not." J. C.
Shairp. "But Rugby is a very nice place all the same." T. Arnold.
 -- See also under All, n.

ALL
All, n.

Defn: The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing;
everything included or concerned; the aggregate; the whole; totality;
everything or every person; as, our all is at stake.
Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all. Shak.
All that thou seest is mine. Gen. xxxi. 43.

Note: All is used with of, like a partitive; as, all of a thing, all
of us. After all, after considering everything to the contrary;
nevertheless.
 -- All in all, a phrase which signifies all things to a person, or
everything desired; (also adverbially) wholly; altogether.
Thou shalt be all in all, and I in thee, Forever. Milton.
Trust me not at all, or all in all. Tennyson.
-- All in the wind (Naut.), a phrase denoting that the sails are
parallel with the course of the wind, so as to shake.
 -- All told, all counted; in all.
 -- And all, and the rest; and everything connected. "Bring our crown
and all." Shak.
 -- At all. (a) In every respect; wholly; thoroughly. [Obs.] "She is
a shrew at al(l)." Chaucer. (b) A phrase much used by way of
enforcement or emphasis, usually in negative or interrogative
sentences, and signifying in any way or respect; in the least degree
or to the least extent; in the least; under any circumstances; as, he
has no ambition at all; has he any property at all "Nothing at all. "
Shak. "It thy father at all miss me." 1 Sam. xx. 6.
 -- Over all, everywhere. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Note: All is much used in composition to enlarge the meaning, or add
force to a word. In some instances, it is completely incorporated
into words, and its final consonant is dropped, as in almighty,
already, always: but, in most instances, it is an adverb prefixed to
adjectives or participles, but usually with a hyphen, as, all-
bountiful, all-glorious, allimportant, all-surrounding, etc. In
others it is an adjective; as, allpower, all-giver. Anciently many
words, as, alabout, alaground, etc., were compounded with all, which
are now written separately.

ALL
All, conj. Etym: [Orig. all, adv., wholly: used with though or if,
which being dropped before the subjunctive left all as if in the
sense although.]

Defn: Although; albeit. [Obs.]
All they were wondrous loth. Spenser.

ALLA BREVE
Al`la bre"ve. Etym: [It., according to the breve.] (Old Church Music)

Defn: With one breve, or four minims, to measure, and sung faster
like four crotchets; in quick common time; -- indicated in the time
signature by

ALLAH
Al"lah, n. Etym: [ contr. fr. the article al the + ilah God.]

Defn: The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and the
Mohammedans generally.

ALL-A-MORT
All`-a-mort", a.

Defn: See Alamort.

ALLANITE
Al"lan*ite, n. Etym: [From T. Allan, who first distinguished it as a
species.] (min.)

Defn: A silicate containing a large amount of cerium. It is usually
black in color, opaque, and is related to epidote in form and
composition.

ALLANTOIC
Al`lan*to"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. allantoïque.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois. Allantoic acid.
(Chem.) See Allantoin.

ALLANTOID; ALLANTOIDAL
Al*lan"toid, Al`lan*toid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the allantois.

ALLANTOIDEA
Al`lan*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Vertebrata in which the embryo develops an
allantois. It includes reptiles, birds, and mammals.

ALLANTOIN
Al*lan"to*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline, transparent, colorless substance found in the
allantoic liquid of the fetal calf; -- formerly called allantoic acid
and amniotic acid.

ALLANTOIS; ALLANTOID
Al*lan"to*is, Al*lan"toid, } n.. (Anat.)

Defn: A membranous appendage of the embryos of mammals, birds, and
reptiles, -- in mammals serving to connect the fetus with the parent;
the urinary vesicle.

ALLATRATE
Al"la*trate, v. i. Etym: [L. allatrare. See Latrate.]

Defn: To bark as a dog. [Obs.] Stubbes.

ALLAY
Al*lay", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Allaying.]
Etym: [OE. alaien, aleggen, to lay down, put down, humble, put an end
to, AS. alecgan; a- (cf. Goth. us-, G. er-, orig. meaning out) +
lecgan to lay; but confused with old forms of allege, alloy, alegge.
See Lay.]

1. To make quiet or put at rest; to pacify or appease; to quell; to
calm; as, to allay popular excitement; to allay the tumult of the
passions.

2. To alleviate; to abate; to mitigate; as, to allay the severity of
affliction or the bitterness of adversity.
It would allay the burning quality of that fell poison. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To alleviate; check; repress; assuage; appease; abate; subdue;
destroy; compose; soothe; calm; quiet. See Alleviate.

ALLAY
Al*lay", v. t.

Defn: To diminish in strength; to abate; to subside. "When the rage
allays." Shak.

ALLAY
Al*lay", n.

Defn: Alleviation; abatement; check. [Obs.]

ALLAY
Al*lay", n.

Defn: Alloy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALLAY
Al*lay", v. t.

Defn: To mix (metals); to mix with a baser metal; to alloy; to
deteriorate. [Archaic] Fuller.

ALLAYER
Al*lay"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, allays.

ALLAYMENT
Al*lay"ment, n.

Defn: An allaying; that which allays; mitigation. [Obs.]
The like allayment could I give my grief. Shak.

ALLECRET
Al"le*cret, n. Etym: [OF. alecret, halecret, hallecret.]

Defn: A kind of light armor used in the sixteenth century, esp. by
the Swiss. Fairholt.

ALLECT
Al*lect", v. t. Etym: [L. allectare, freq. of allicere, allectum.]

Defn: To allure; to entice. [Obs.]

ALLECTATION
Al`lec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. allectatio.]

Defn: Enticement; allurement. [Obs.] Bailey.

ALLECTIVE
Al*lec"tive, a. Etym: [LL. allectivus.]

Defn: Alluring. [Obs.]

ALLECTIVE
Al*lec"tive, n.

Defn: Allurement. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

ALLEDGE
Al*ledge", v. t.

Defn: See Allege. [Obs.]

Note: This spelling, corresponding to abridge, was once the
prevailing one.

ALLEGATION
Al`le*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. allegatio, fr. allegare, allegatum, to
send a message, cite; later, to free by giving reasons; ad + legare
to send, commission. Cf. Allege and Adlegation.]

1. The act of alleging or positively asserting.

2. That which is alleged, asserted, or declared; positive assertion;
formal averment
I thought their allegation but reasonable. Steele.

3. (Law)

Defn: A statement by a party of what he undertakes to prove, --
usually applied to each separate averment; the charge or matter
undertaken to be proved.

ALLEGE
Al*lege", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alleged; p. pr. & vb. n. Alleging.]
Etym: [OE. aleggen to bring forward as evidence, OF. esligier to buy,
prop. to free from legal difficulties, fr. an assumed LL. exlitigare;
L. ex + litigare to quarrel, sue (see Litigate). The word was
confused with L. allegare (see Allegation), and lex law. Cf. Allay.]

1. To bring forward with positiveness; to declare; to affirm; to
assert; as, to allege a fact.

2. To cite or quote; as, to allege the authority of a judge.
[Archaic]

3. To produce or urge as a reason, plea, or excuse; as, he refused to
lend, alleging a resolution against lending.

Syn.
 -- To bring forward; adduce; advance; assign; produce; declare;
affirm; assert; aver; predicate.

ALLEGE
Al*lege", v. t. Etym: [See Allay.]

Defn: To alleviate; to lighten, as a burden or a trouble. [Obs.]
Wyclif.

ALLEGEABLE
Al*lege"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being alleged or affirmed.
The most authentic examples allegeable in the case. South.

ALLEGEANCE
Al*lege"ance, n.

Defn: Allegation. [Obs.]

ALLEGEMENT
Al*lege"ment, n.

Defn: Allegation. [Obs.]
With many complaints and allegements. Bp. Sanderson.

ALLEGER
Al*leg"er, n.

Defn: One who affirms or declares.

ALLEGGE
Al*legge", v. t.

Defn: See Alegge and Allay. [Obs.]

ALLEGHENIAN; ALLEGHANIAN
Al`le*ghe"ni*an, a. Also Al`le*gha"ni*an. (Biogeography)

Defn: Pertaining to or designating the humid division of the
Transition zone extending across the northern United States from New
England to eastern Dakota, and including also most of Pennsylvania
and the mountainous region as far south as northern Georgia.

ALLEGHENY; ALLEGHANY
Al"le*ghe`ny, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the Allegheny Mountains, or the region where
they are situated. Also Al"le*gha`ny.

2.  [From the Allegheny River, Pennsylvania.] (Geol.) Pertaining to
or designating a subdivision of the Pennsylvanian coal measure.

ALLEGIANCE
Al*le"giance, n. Etym: [OE. alegeaunce; pref. a- + OF. lige, liege.
The meaning was influenced by L. ligare to bind, and even by lex,
legis, law. See Liege, Ligeance.]

1. The tie or obligation, implied or expressed, which a subject owes
to his sovereign or government; the duty of fidelity to one's king,
government, or state.

2. Devotion; loyalty; as, allegiance to science.

Syn.
 -- Loyalty; fealty.
 -- Allegiance, Loyalty. These words agree in expressing the general
idea of fidelity and attachment to the "powers that be." Allegiance
is an obligation to a ruling power. Loyalty is a feeling or sentiment
towards such power. Allegiance may exist under any form of
government, and, in a republic, we generally speak of allegiance to
the government, to the state, etc. In well conducted monarchies,
loyalty is a warm-hearted feeling of fidelity and obedience to the
sovereign. It is personal in its nature; and hence we speak of the
loyalty of a wife to her husband, not of her allegiance. In cases
where we personify, loyalty is more commonly the word used; as,
loyalty to the constitution; loyalty to the cause of virtue; loyalty
to truth and religion, etc.
Hear me, recreant, on thine allegiance hear me! Shak.
So spake the Seraph Abdiel, faithful found, . . . Unshaken,
unseduced, unterrified, His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal.
Milton.

ALLEGIANT
Al*le"giant, a.

Defn: Loyal. Shak.

ALLEGORIC; ALLEGORICAL
Al`le*gor"ic, Al`le*gor"ic*al, a. Etym: [F. allégorique, L.
allegorius, fr. Gr. Allegory.]

Defn: Belonging to, or consisting of, allegory; of the nature of an
allegory; describing by resemblances; figurative. "An allegoric
tale." Falconer. "An allegorical application." Pope.
Allegorical being . . . that kind of language which says one thing,
but means another. Max Miller.
Al`le*gor"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Al`le*gor"ic*al*ness, n.

ALLEGORIST
Al"le*go*rist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. allegoriste.]

Defn: One who allegorizes; a writer of allegory. Hume.

ALLEGORIZATION
Al`le*gor"i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in an
allegorical sense.

ALLEGORIZE
Al"le*go*rize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allegorized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Allegorizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. allégoriser, fr. L. allegorizare.]

1. To form or turn into allegory; as, to allegorize the history of a
people.

2. To treat as allegorical; to understand in an allegorical sense;
as, when a passage in a writer may understood literally or
figuratively, he who gives it a figurative sense is said to
allegorize it.

ALLEGORIZE
Al"le*go*rize, v. t.

Defn: To use allegory. Holland.

ALLEGORIZER
Al"le*go*ri`zer, n.

Defn: One who allegorizes, or turns things into allegory; an
allegorist.

ALLEGORY
Al"le*go*ry, n.; pl. Allegories. Etym: [L. allegoria, Gr. allégorie.]

1. A figurative sentence or discourse, in which the principal subject
is described by another subject resembling it in its properties and
circumstances. The real subject is thus kept out of view, and we are
left to collect the intentions of the writer or speaker by the
resemblance of the secondary to the primary subject.

2. Anything which represents by suggestive resemblance; an emblem.

3. (Paint. & Sculpt.)

Defn: A figure representation which has a meaning beyond notion
directly conveyed by the object painted or sculptured.

Syn.
 -- Metaphor; fable.
 -- Allegory, Parable. "An allegory differs both from fable and
parable, in that the properties of persons are fictitiously
represented as attached to things, to which they are as it were
transferred. . . . A figure of Peace and Victory crowning some
historical personage is an allegory. "I am the Vine, ye are the
branches" [John xv. 1-6] is a spoken allegory. In the parable there
is no transference of properties. The parable of the sower [Matt.
xiii. 3-23] represents all things as according to their proper
nature. In the allegory quoted above the properties of the vine and
the relation of the branches are transferred to the person of Christ
and His apostles and disciples." C. J. Smith.

Note: An allegory is a prolonged metaphor. Bunyan's "Pilgrim's
Progress" and Spenser's "Faërie Queene" are celebrated examples of
the allegory.

ALLEGRESSE
Al`le`gresse", n. Etym: [F. allégresse, fr. L. alacer sprightly.]

Defn: Joy; gladsomeness.

ALLEGRETTO
Al`le*gret"to, a. Etym: [It., dim. of allegro.] (Mus.)

Defn: Quicker than andante, but not so quick as allegro.
 -- n.

Defn: A movement in this time.

ALLEGRO
Al*le"gro, a. Etym: [It., merry, gay, fr. L. alacer lively. Cf.
Aleger.] (Mus.)

Defn: Brisk, lively.
 -- n.

Defn: An allegro movement; a quick, sprightly strain or piece.

ALLELOMORPH
Al*le"lo*morph, n. [Gr.  of one another + Gr.  form.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the pure unit characters commonly existing singly or in
pairs in the germ cells of Mendelian hybrids, and exhibited in
varying proportion among the organisms themselves. Allelomorphs which
under certain circumstances are themselves compound are called
hypallelomorphs. See Mendel's law. -- Al*le`lo*mor"phic (#), a.

As we know that the several unit characters are of such a nature that
any one of them is capable of independently displacing or being
displaced by one or more alternative characters taken singly, we may
recognize this fact by naming such characters allelomorphs.
Bateson.

ALLELUIA; ALLELUIAH
Al`le*lu"ia, Al`le*lu"iah, n. Etym: [L. alleluia, Gr. hall-yah. See
Hallelujah.]

Defn: An exclamation signifying Praise ye Jehovah. Hence: A song of
praise to God. See Hallelujah, the commoner form.
I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia.
Rev. xix. 1.

ALLEMANDE
Al"le*mande", n. Etym: [F., fr. allemand German.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in the
reign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, like
those of Bach and Handel.

2. A figure in dancing.

ALLEMANNIC
Al`le*man"nic, a.

Defn: See Alemannic.

ALLENARLY
Al*len"ar*ly, adv. Etym: [All + anerly singly, fr. ane one.]

Defn: Solely; only. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

ALLER
Al"ler, a. Etym: [For ealra, the AS. gen. pl. of eal all.]

Defn: Same as Alder, of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALLERION
Al*le"ri*on, n. Etym: [F. alérion, LL. alario a sort of eagle; of
uncertain origin.] (Her.)

Defn: Am eagle without beak or feet, with expanded wings. Burke.

ALLEVIATE
Al*le"vi*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alleviated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alleviating.] Etym: [LL. alleviare, fr. L. ad + levis light. See
Alegge, Levity.]

1. To lighten or lessen the force or weight of. [Obs.]
Should no others join capable to alleviate the expense. Evelyn.
Those large bladders . . . conduce much to the alleviating of the
body [of flying birds]. Ray.

2. To lighten or lessen (physical or mental troubles); to mitigate,
or make easier to be endured; as, to alleviate sorrow, pain, care,
etc. ; -- opposed to aggravate.
The calamity of the want of the sense of hearing is much alleviated
by giving the use of letters. Bp. Horsley.

3. To extenuate; to palliate. [R.]
He alleviates his fault by an excuse. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- To lessen; diminish; soften; mitigate; assuage; abate; relieve;
nullify; allay.
 -- To Alleviate, Mitigate, Assuage, Allay. These words have in
common the idea of relief from some painful state; and being all
figurative, they differ in their application, according to the image
under which this idea is presented. Alleviate supposes a load which
is lightened or taken off; as, to alleviate one's cares. Mitigate
supposes something fierce which is made mild; as, to mitigate one's
anguish. Assuage supposes something violent which is quieted; as, to
assuage one's sorrow. Allay supposes something previously excited,
but now brought down; as, to allay one's suffering or one's thirst.
To alleviate the distresses of life; to mitigate the fierceness of
passion or the violence of grief; to assuage angry feeling; to allay
wounded sensibility.

ALLEVIATION
Al*le`vi*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. alleviatio.]

1. The act of alleviating; a lightening of weight or severity;
mitigation; relief.

2. That which mitigates, or makes more tolerable.
I have not wanted such alleviations of life as friendship could
supply. Johnson.

ALLEVIATIVE
Al*le"vi*a*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to alleviate.
 -- n.

Defn: That which alleviates.

ALLEVIATOR
Al*le"vi*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, alleviaties.

ALLEVIATORY
Al*le"vi*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Alleviative. Carlyle.

ALLEY
Al"ley, n.; pl. Alleys. Etym: [OE. aley, alley, OF. alée, F. allée, a
going, passage, fr. OE. aler, F. aller, to go; of uncertain origin:
cf. Prov. anar, It. andare, Sp. andar.]

1. A narrow passage; especially a walk or passage in a garden or
park, bordered by rows of trees or bushes; a bordered way.
I know each lane and every alley green. Milton.

2. A narrow passage or way in a city, as distinct from a public
street. Gay.

3. A passageway between rows of pews in a church.

4. (Persp.)

Defn: Any passage having the entrance represented as wider than the
exit, so as to give the appearance of length.

5. The space between two rows of compositors' stands in a printing
office.

ALLEY
Al"ley, n.; pl. Alleys. Etym: [A contraction of alabaster, of which
it was originally made.]

Defn: A choice taw or marble. Dickens.

ALLEYED
Al"leyed, a.

Defn: Furnished with alleys; forming an alley. "An alleyed walk." Sir
W. Scott.

ALLEYWAY
Al"ley*way` n.

Defn: An alley.

ALL FOOLS' DAY
All" Fools' Day`.

Defn: The first day of April, a day on which sportive impositions are
practiced.
The first of April, some do say, Is set apart for All Fools' Day.
Poor Robin's Almanack (1760).

ALLFOURS
All`fours". Etym: [All + four (cards).]

Defn: A game at cards, called "High, Low, Jack, and the Game."

ALL FOURS
All` fours" Etym: [formerly, All` four".]

Defn: All four legs of a quadruped; or the two legs and two arms of a
person. To be, go, or run, on all fours (Fig.), to be on the same
footing; to correspond (with) exactly; to be alike in all the
circumstances to be considered. "This example is on all fours with
the other." "No simile can go on all fours." Macaulay.

ALL HAIL
All` hail". Etym: [All + hail, interj.]

Defn: All health; -- a phrase of salutation or welcome.

ALL-HAIL
All`-hail", v. t.

Defn: To salute; to greet. [Poet.]
Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from the king,
who all-hailed me "Thane of Cawdor." Shak.

ALLHALLOND
All`hal"lond, n.

Defn: Allhallows. [Obs.] Shak.

ALLHALLOW
All`hal"low.

Defn: The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.

ALLHALLOW; ALLHALLOWS
All`hal"low, All`hal"lows, n.

1. All the saints (in heaven). [Obs.]

2. All Saints' Day, November 1st. [Archaic]

ALLHALLOW EVE
All`hal"low eve` (ev`).

Defn: The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.

ALLHALLOWMAS
All`hal"low*mas, n.

Defn: The feast of All Saints.

ALLHALLOWN
All`hal"lown, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the time of Allhallows. [Obs.] "Allhallown
summer." Shak. (i. e., late summer; "Indian Summer").

ALLHALLOWTIDE
All`hal"low*tide`, n. Etym: [AS. tid time.]

Defn: The time at or near All Saints, or November 1st.

ALLHEAL
All"heal, n.

Defn: A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to some
other plants.

ALLIABLE
Al*li"a*ble, a.

Defn: Able to enter into alliance.

ALLIACEOUS
Al`li*a"ceous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Allium, or garlic, onions, leeks,
etc.; having the smell or taste of garlic or onions.

ALLIANCE
Al*li"ance, n. Etym: [OE. aliaunce, OF. aliance, F. alliance, fr. OF.
alier, F. allier. See Ally, and cf. LL. alligantia.]

1. The state of being allied; the act of allying or uniting; a union
or connection of interests between families, states, parties, etc.,
especially between families by marriage and states by compact,
treaty, or league; as, matrimonial alliances; an alliance between
church and state; an alliance between France and England.

2. Any union resembling that of families or states; union by
relationship in qualities; affinity.
The alliance of the principles of the world with those of the gospel.
C. J. Smith.
The alliance . . . between logic and metaphysics. Mansel.

3. The persons or parties allied. Udall.

Syn.
 -- Connection; affinity; union; confederacy; confederation; league;
coalition.

ALLIANCE
Al*li"ance, v. t.

Defn: To connect by alliance; to ally. [Obs.]

ALLIANT
Al*li"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alliant, p. pr.]

Defn: An ally; a confederate. [Obs. & R.] Sir H. Wotton.

ALLICE; ALLIS
Al"lice, Al"lis, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European shad (Clupea vulgaris); allice shad. See Alose.

ALLICIENCY
Al*li"cien*cy, n.

Defn: Attractive power; attractiveness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ALLICIENT
Al*li"cient, a. Etym: [L. alliciens, p. pr. of allicere to allure; ad
+ lacere to entice.]

Defn: That attracts; attracting.
 -- n.

Defn: That attracts. [Rare or Obs.]

ALLIED
Al*lied", a.

Defn: United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally.

ALLIGATE
Al*li*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. alligatus, p. p. of alligare. See Ally.]

Defn: To tie; to unite by some tie.
Instincts alligated to their nature. Sir M. Hale.

ALLIGATION
Al`li*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. alligatio.]

1. The act of tying together or attaching by some bond, or the state
of being attached. [R.]

2. (Arith.)

Defn: A rule relating to the solution of questions concerning the
compounding or mixing of different ingredients, or ingredients of
different qualities or values.

Note: The rule is named from the method of connecting together the
terms by certain ligature-like signs. Alligation is of two kinds,
medial and alternate; medial teaching the method of finding the price
or quality of a mixture of several simple ingredients whose prices
and qualities are known; alternate, teaching the amount of each of
several simple ingredients whose prices or qualities are known, which
will be required to make a mixture of given price or quality.

ALLIGATOR
Al"li*ga`tor, n. Etym: [Sp. el lagarto the lizard (el lagarto de
Indias, the cayman or American crocodile), fr. L. lacertus, lacerta,
lizard. See Lizard.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large carnivorous reptile of the Crocodile family, peculiar
to America. It has a shorter and broader snout than the crocodile,
and the large teeth of the lower jaw shut into pits in the upper jaw,
which has no marginal notches. Besides the common species of the
southern United States, there are allied species in South America.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: Any machine with strong jaws, one of which opens like the
movable jaw of an alligator; as, (a) (Metal Working)

Defn: a form of squeezer for the puddle ball;
(b) (Mining) a rock breaker;
(c) (Printing) a kind of job press, called also alligator press.
Alligator apple (Bot.), the fruit of the Anona palustris, a West
Indian tree. It is said to be narcotic in its properties. Loudon.
 -- Alligator fish (Zoöl.), a marine fish of northwestern America
(Podothecus acipenserinus).
 -- Alligator gar (Zoöl.), one of the gar pikes (Lepidosteus spatula)
found in the southern rivers of the United States. The name is also
applied to other species of gar pikes.
 -- Alligator pear (Bot.), a corruption of Avocado pear. See Avocado.
 -- Alligator snapper, Alligator tortoise, Alligator turtle (Zoöl.),
a very large and voracious turtle (Macrochelys lacertina) in habiting
the rivers of the southern United States. It sometimes reaches the
weight of two hundred pounds. Unlike the common snapping turtle, to
which the name is sometimes erroneously applied, it has a scaly head
and many small scales beneath the tail. This name is sometimes given
to other turtles, as to species of Trionyx.
 -- Alligator wood, the timber of a tree of the West Indies (Guarea
Swartzii).

ALLIGATOR WRENCH
Al"li*ga`tor wrench. (Mech.)

Defn: A kind of pipe wrench having a flaring jaw with teeth on one
side.

ALLIGNMENT
Al*lign"ment, n.

Defn: See Alignment.

ALLINEATE
Al*lin"e*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. ad + lineatus, p. p. of lineare to draw
a line.]

Defn: To align. [R.] Herschel.

ALLINEATION; ALINEEATION
Al*lin`e*a"tion, A*line`e*a"tion, n.

Defn: Alignment; position in a straight line, as of two planets with
the sun. Whewell.
The allineation of the two planets. C. A. Young.

ALLISION
Al*li"sion, n. Etym: [L. allisio, fr. allidere, to strike or dash
against; ad + laedere to dash against.]

Defn: The act of dashing against, or striking upon.
The boisterous allision of the sea. Woodward.

ALLITERAL
Al*lit"er*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by alliteration.

ALLITERATE
Al*lit"er*ate, v. t.

Defn: To employ or place so as to make alliteration. Skeat.

ALLITERATE
Al*lit"er*ate, v. i.

Defn: To compose alliteratively; also, to constitute alliteration.

ALLITERATION
Al*lit`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. ad + litera letter. See Letter.]

Defn: The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two or
more words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals;
as in the following lines: -
Behemoth, biggest born of earth, upheaved His vastness. Milton.
Fly o'er waste fens and windy fields. Tennyson.

Note: The recurrence of the same letter in accented parts of words is
also called alliteration. Anglo-Saxon poetry is characterized by
alliterative meter of this sort. Later poets also employed it.
In a somer seson whan soft was the sonne, I shope me in shroudes as I
a shepe were. P. Plowman.

ALLITERATIVE
Al*lit"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, alliteration; as,
alliterative poetry.
 -- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ness, n.

ALLITERATOR
Al*lit"er*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who alliterates.

ALLIUM
Al"li*um, n. Etym: [L., garlic.] (bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive,
etc.

ALLMOUTH
All"mouth`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The angler.

ALLNESS
All"ness, n.

Defn: Totality; completeness. [R.]
The allness of God, including his absolute spirituality, supremacy,
and eternity. R. Turnbull.

ALLNIGHT
All"night`, n.

Defn: Light, fuel, or food for the whole night. [Obs.] Bacon.

ALLOCATE
Al"lo*cate, v. t. Etym: [LL. allocatus, p. p. of allocare, fr. L. ad
+ locare to place. See Allow.]

1. To distribute or assign; to allot. Burke.

2. To localize. [R.]

ALLOCATION
Al`lo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [LL. allocatio: cf. F. allocation.]

1. The act of putting one thing to another; a placing; disposition;
arrangement. Hallam.

2. An allotment or apportionment; as, an allocation of shares in a
company.
The allocation of the particular portions of Palestine to its
successive inhabitants. A. R. Stanley.

3. The admission of an item in an account, or an allowance made upon
an account; -- a term used in the English exchequer.

ALLOCATUR
Al`lo*ca"tur, n. Etym: [LL., it is allowed, fr. allocare to allow.]
(Law)

Defn: "Allowed." The word allocatur expresses the allowance of a
proceeding, writ, order, etc., by a court, judge, or judicial
officer.

ALLOCHROIC
Al`lo*chro"ic, a.

Defn: Changeable in color.

ALLOCHROITE
Al*loch"ro*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Garnet.

ALLOCHROOUS
Al*loch"ro*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Changing color.

ALLOCUTION
Al`lo*cu"tion, n. Etym: [L. allocuto, fr. alloqui to speak to; ad +
loqui to speak: cf. F. allocution.]

1. The act or manner of speaking to, or of addressing in words.

2. An address; a hortatory or authoritative address as of a pope to
his clergy. Addison.

ALLOD
Al"lod, n.

Defn: See Allodium.

ALLODIAL
Al*lo"di*al, a. Etym: [LL. allodialis, fr. allodium: cf. F. allodial.
See Allodium.] (Law)

Defn: Pertaining to allodium; freehold; free of rent or service; held
independent of a lord paramount; -- opposed to feudal; as, allodial
lands; allodial system. Blackstone.

ALLODIAL
Al*lo"di*al, a.

Defn: Anything held allodially. W. Coxe.

ALLODIALISM
Al*lo"di*al*ism, n.

Defn: The allodial system.

ALLODIALIST
Al*lo"di*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who holds allodial land.

ALLODIALLY
Al*lo"di*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By allodial tenure.

ALLODIARY
Al*lo"di*a*ry, n.

Defn: One who holds an allodium.

ALLODIUM
Al*lo"di*um, n. Etym: [LL. allodium, alodium, alodis, alaudis, of
Ger. origin; cf. OHG. al all, and (AS. ead) possession, property. It
means, therefore, entirely one's property.] (Law)

Defn: Freehold estate; land which is the absolute property of the
owner; real estate held in absolute independence, without being
subject to any rent, service, or acknowledgment to a superior. It is
thus opposed to feud. Blackstone. Bouvier.

ALLOGAMOUS
Al*log"a*mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Characterized by allogamy.

ALLOGAMY
Al*log"a*my n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Fertilization of the pistil of a plant by pollen from another
of the same species; cross-fertilization.

ALLOGENEOUS
Al`lo*ge"ne*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Different in nature or kind. [R.]

ALLOGRAPH
Al"lo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: A writing or signature made by some person other than any of
the parties thereto; -- opposed to autograph.

ALLOMERISM
Al*lom"er*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Variability in chemical constitution without variation in
crystalline form.

ALLOMEROUS
Al*lom"er*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Characterized by allomerism.

ALLOMORPH
Al"lo*morph, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)
(a) Any one of two or more distinct crystalline forms of the same
substance; or the substance having such forms; -- as, carbonate of
lime occurs in the allomorphs calcite and aragonite.
(b) A variety of pseudomorph which has undergone partial or complete
change or substitution of material; -- thus limonite is frequently an
allomorph after pyrite. G. H. Williams.

ALLOMORPHIC
Al`lo*mor"phic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to allomorphism.

ALLOMORPHISM
Al`lo*mor"phism, n. (Min.)

Defn: The property which constitutes an allomorph; the change
involved in becoming an allomorph.

ALLONGE
Al*longe", n. Etym: [F. allonge, earlier alonge, a lengthening. See
Allonge, v., and cf. Lunge.]

1. (Fencing)

Defn: A thrust or pass; a lunge.

2. A slip of paper attached to a bill of exchange for receiving
indorsements, when the back of the bill itself is already full; a
rider. [A French usage] Abbott.

ALLONGE
Al*longe", v. i. Etym: [F. allonger; à (L. ad) + long (L. longus)
long.]

Defn: To thrust with a sword; to lunge.

ALLONYM
Al"lo*nym, n. Etym: [F. allonyme, fr. Gr.

1. The name of another person assumed by the author of a work.

2. A work published under the name of some one other than the author.

ALLONYMOUS
Al*lon"y*mous, a.

Defn: Published under the name of some one other than the author.

ALLOO
Al*loo", v. t. or i. Etym: [See Halloo.]

Defn: To incite dogs by a call; to halloo. [Obs.]

ALLOPATH
Al"lo*path, n. Etym: [Cf. F. allopathe.]

Defn: An allopathist. Ed. Rev.

ALLOPATHIC
Al`lo*path"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. allopathique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to allopathy.

ALLOPATHICALLY
Al`lo*path"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner conformable to allopathy; by allopathic methods.

ALLOPATHIST
Al*lop"a*thist, n.

Defn: One who practices allopathy; one who professes allopathy.

ALLOPATHY
Al*lop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr. allopathie, F. allopathie. See Pathos.]

Defn: That system of medical practice which aims to combat disease by
the use of remedies which produce effects different from those
produced by the special disease treated; -- a term invented by
Hahnemann to designate the ordinary practice, as opposed to
homeopathy.

ALLOPHYLIC; ALLOPHYLIAN
Al`lo*phyl"ic, Al`lo*phyl"i*an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to a race or a language neither Aryan nor Semitic.
J. Prichard.

ALLOQUY
Al"lo*quy, n. Etym: [L. alloquim, fr. alloqui.]

Defn: A speaking to another; an address. [Obs.]

ALLOT
Al*lot", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Allotting.]
Etym: [OF. aloter, F. allotir; a (L. ad) + lot lot. See Lot.]

1. To distribute by lot.

2. To distribute, or parcel out in parts or portions; or to
distribute to each individual concerned; to assign as a share or lot;
to set apart as one's share; to bestow on; to grant; to appoint; as,
let every man be contented with that which Providence allots him.
Ten years I will allot to the attainment of knowledge. Johnson.

ALLOTHEISM
Al"lo*the*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The worship of strange gods. Jer. Taylor.

ALLOTMENT
Al*lot"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. alotement, F. allotement.]

1. The act of allotting; assignment.

2. That which is allotted; a share, part, or portion granted or
distributed; that which is assigned by lot, or by the act of God;
anything set apart for a special use or to a distinct party.
The alloments of God and nature. L'Estrange.
A vineyard and an allotment for olives and herbs. Broome.

3. (law)

Defn: The allowance of a specific amount of scrip or of a particular
thing to a particular person. Cottage allotment, an allotment of a
small portion of land to a country laborer for garden cultivation.
[Eng.]

ALLOTRIOPHAGY
Al`lo*tri*oph"a*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. allotriophagie.] (Med.)

Defn: A depraved appetite; a desire for improper food.

ALLOTROPHIC
Al`lo*troph"ic, a. [Gr.  other + trophic.]
 (a) (Physiol.) Changed or modified in nutritive power by the process
of digestion.
 (b) (Plant Physiol.) Dependent upon other organisms for nutrition;
heterotrophic; -- said of plants unable to perform photosynthesis, as
all saprophytes; -- opposed to autotrophic.

ALLOTROPIC; ALLOTROPICAL
Al`lo*trop"ic, Al`lo*trop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. allotropique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to allotropism.
 -- Al`lo*trop"ic*al*ly, adv. Allotropic state, the several
conditions which occur in a case of allotropism.

ALLOTROPICITY
Al*lot`ro*pic"i*ty, n.

Defn: Allotropic property or nature.

ALLOTROPISM; ALLOTROPY
Al*lot"ro*pism, Al*lot"ro*py, n. Etym: [Gr. allotropie.] (Chem.)

Defn: The property of existing in two or more conditions which are
distinct in their physical or chemical relations.

Note: Thus, carbon occurs crystallized in octahedrons and other
related forms, in a state of extreme hardness, in the diamond; it
occurs in hexagonal forms, and of little hardness, in black lead; and
again occurs in a third form, with entire softness, in lampblack and
charcoal. In some cases, one of these is peculiarly an active state,
and the other a passive one. Thus, ozone is an active state of
oxygen, and is distinct from ordinary oxygen, which is the element in
its passive state.

ALLOTROPIZE
Al*lot"ro*pize, v. t.

Defn: To change in physical properties but not in substance. [R.]

ALLOTTABLE
Al*lot"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being allotted.

ALLOTTEE
Al*lot`tee", n.

Defn: One to whom anything is allotted; one to whom an allotment is
made.

ALLOTTER
Al*lot"ter, n.

Defn: One who allots.

ALLOTTERY
Al*lot"ter*y, n.

Defn: Allotment. [Obs.] Shak.

ALLOW
Al*low", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Allowing.]
Etym: [OE. alouen, OF. alouer, aloer, aluer, F. allouer, fr. LL.
allocare to admit as proved, to place, use; confused with OF. aloer,
fr. L. allaudare to extol; ad + laudare to praise. See Local, and cf.
Allocate, Laud.]

1. To praise; to approve of; hence, to sanction. [Obs. or Archaic]
Ye allow the deeds of your fathers. Luke xi. 48.
We commend his pains, condemn his pride, allow his life, approve his
learning. Fuller.

2. To like; to be suited or pleased with. [Obs.]
How allow you the model of these clothes Massinger.

3. To sanction; to invest; to intrust. [Obs.]
Thou shalt be . . . allowed with absolute power. Shak.

4. To grant, give, admit, accord, afford, or yield; to let one have;
as, to allow a servant his liberty; to allow a free passage; to allow
one day for rest.
He was allowed about three hundred pounds a year. Macaulay.

5. To own or acknowledge; to accept as true; to concede; to accede to
an opinion; as, to allow a right; to allow a claim; to allow the
truth of a proposition.
I allow, with Mrs. Grundy and most moralists, that Miss Newcome's
conduct . . . was highly reprehensible. Thackeray.

6. To grant (something) as a deduction or an addition; esp. to abate
or deduct; as, to allow a sum for leakage.

7. To grant license to; to permit; to consent to; as, to allow a son
to be absent.

Syn.
 -- To allot; assign; bestow; concede; admit; permit; suffer;
tolerate. See Permit.

ALLOW
Al*low", v. i.

Defn: To admit; to concede; to make allowance or abatement.
Allowing still for the different ways of making it. Addison.
To allow of, to permit; to admit. Shak.

ALLOWABLE
Al*low"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. allouable.]

1. Praiseworthy; laudable. [Obs.] Hacket.

2. Proper to be, or capable of being, allowed; permissible;
admissible; not forbidden; not unlawful or improper; as, a certain
degree of freedom is allowable among friends.

ALLOWABLENESS
Al*low"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being allowable; permissibleness; lawfulness;
exemption from prohibition or impropriety. South.

ALLOWABLY
Al*low"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an allowable manner.

ALLOWANCE
Al*low"ance, n. Etym: [OF. alouance.]

1. Approval; approbation. [Obs.] Crabbe.

2. The act of allowing, granting, conceding, or admitting;
authorization; permission; sanction; tolerance.
Without the king's will or the state's allowance. Shak.

3. Acknowledgment.
The censure of the which one must in your allowance o'erweigh a whole
theater of others. Shak.

4. License; indulgence. [Obs.] Locke.

5. That which is allowed; a share or portion allotted or granted; a
sum granted as a reimbursement, a bounty, or as appropriate for any
purpose; a stated quantity, as of food or drink; hence, a limited
quantity of meat and drink, when provisions fall short.
I can give the boy a handsome allowance. Thackeray.

6. Abatement; deduction; the taking into account of mitigating
circumstances; as, to make allowance for the inexperience of youth.
After making the largest allowance for fraud. Macaulay.

7. (com.)

Defn: A customary deduction from the gross weight of goods, different
in different countries, such as tare and tret.

ALLOWANCE
Al*low"ance, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allowancing.] Etym: [See Allowance,
n.]

Defn: To put upon a fixed allowance (esp. of provisions and drink);
to supply in a fixed and limited quantity; as, the captain was
obliged to allowance his crew; our provisions were allowanced.

ALLOWEDLY
Al*low"ed*ly adv.

Defn: By allowance; admittedly. Shenstone.

ALLOWER
Al*low"er, n.

1. An approver or abettor. [Obs.]

2. One who allows or permits.

ALLOXAN
Al*lox"an, n. Etym: [Allantoin + oxalic, as containing the elements
of allantion and oxalic acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oxidation product of uric acid. It is of a pale reddish
color, readily soluble in water or alcohol.

ALLOXANATE
Al*lox"a*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of alloxanic acid and a base or base or positive
radical.

ALLOXANIC
Al`lox*an"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to alloxan; -- applied to an acid obtained by
the action of soluble alkalies on alloxan.

ALLOXANTIN
Al`lox*an"tin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance produced by acting upon uric with warm and very
dilute nitric acid.

ALLOY
Al*loy", n. Etym: [OE. alai, OF. alei, F. aloyer, to alloy, alier to
ally. See Alloy, v. t.]

1. Any combination or compound of metals fused together; a mixture of
metals; for example, brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc. But
when mercury is one of the metals, the compound is called an amalgam.

2. The quality, or comparative purity, of gold or silver; fineness.

3. A baser metal mixed with a finer.
Fine silver is silver without the mixture of any baser metal. Alloy
is baser metal mixed with it. Locke.

4. Admixture of anything which lessens the value or detracts from;
as, no happiness is without alloy. "Pure English without Latin
alloy." F. Harrison.

ALLOY
Al*loy", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alloyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Alloying.]
Etym: [F. aloyer, OF. alier, allier, later allayer, fr. L. aligare.
See Alloy, n., Ally, v.t., and cf. Allay.]

1. To reduce the purity of by mixing with a less valuable substance;
as, to alloy gold with silver or copper, or silver with copper.

2. To mix, as metals, so as to form a compound.

3. To abate, impair, or debase by mixture; to allay; as, to alloy
pleasure with misfortunes.

ALLOY
Al*loy", v. t.

Defn: To form a metallic compound.
Gold and iron alloy with ease. Ure.

ALLOYAGE
Al*loy"age, n. Etym: [F. aloyage.]

Defn: The act or art of alloying metals; also, the combination or
alloy.

ALLOY STEEL
Al"loy steel.

Defn: Any steel containing a notable quantity of some other metal
alloyed with the iron, usually chromium, nickel, manganese, tungsten,
or vanadium.

ALL-POSSESSED
All`-pos*sessed", a.

Defn: Controlled by an evil spirit or by evil passions; wild.
[Colloq.]

ALL SAINTS; ALL SAINTS'
All" Saints`, All" Saints',

Defn: The first day of November, called, also, Allhallows or
Hallowmas; a feast day kept in honor of all the saints; also, the
season of this festival.

ALL SOULS' DAY
All" Souls' Day`.

Defn: The second day of November; a feast day of the Roman Catholic
church, on which supplications are made for the souls of the faithful
dead.

ALLSPICE
All"spice`, n.

Defn: The berry of the pimento (Eugenia pimenta), a tree of the West
Indies; a spice of a mildly pungent taste, and agreeably aromatic;
Jamaica pepper; pimento. It has been supposed to combine the flavor
of cinnamon, nutmegs, and cloves; and hence the name. The name is
also given to other aromatic shrubs; as, the Carolina allspice
(Calycanthus floridus); wild allspice (Lindera benzoin), called also
spicebush, spicewood, and feverbush.

ALLTHING
All`thing`, adv. Etym: [For in all (= every) thing.]

Defn: Altogether. [Obs.] Shak.

ALLUDE
Al*lude", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Alluded; p. pr. & vb. n. Alluding.]
Etym: [L. alludere to play with, to allude; ad + ludere to play.]

Defn: To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to have
reference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; --
followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction.
These speeches . . . do seem to allude unto such ministerial garments
as were then in use. Hooker.

Syn.
 -- To refer; point; indicate; hint; suggest; intimate; signify;
insinuate; advert. See Refer.

ALLUDE
Al*lude", v. t.

Defn: To compare allusively; to refer (something) as applicable.
[Obs.] Wither.

ALLUMETTE
Al`lu`mette, n. Etym: [F., from allumer to light.]

Defn: A match for lighting candles, lamps, etc.

ALLUMINOR
Al*lu"mi*nor, n. Etym: [OF. alumineor, fr. L. ad + liminare. See
Luminate.]

Defn: An illuminator of manuscripts and books; a limner. [Obs.]
Cowell.

ALLURANCE
Al*lur"ance, n.

Defn: Allurement. [R.]

ALLURE
Al*lure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alluded; p. pr. & vb. n. Alluring.]
Etym: [OF. aleurrer, alurer, fr. a (L. ad) + leurre lure. See Lure.]

Defn: To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by the
offer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by something
flattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract.
With promised joys allured them on. Falconer.
The golden sun in splendor likest Heaven Allured his eye. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To attract; entice; tempt; decoy; seduce.
 -- To Allure, Entice, Decoy, Seduce. These words agree in the idea
of acting upon the mind by some strong controlling influence, and
differ according to the image under which is presented. They are all
used in a bad sense, except allure, which has sometimes (though
rarely) a good one. We are allured by the prospect or offer (usually
deceptive) of some future good. We are commonly enticed into evil by
appeals to our passions. We are decoyed into danger by false
appearances or representations. We are seduced when drawn aside from
the path of rectitude. What allures draws by gentle means; what
entices leads us by promises and persuasions; what decoys betrays us,
as it were, into a snare or net; what seduces deceives us by artful
appeals to the passions.

ALLURE
Al*lure", n.

Defn: Allurement. [R.] Hayward.

ALLURE
Al`lure", n. Etym: [F.; aller to go.]

Defn: Gait; bearing.
The swing, the gait, the pose, the allure of these men. Harper's Mag.

ALLUREMENT
Al*lure"ment, n.

1. The act alluring; temptation; enticement.
Though Adam by his wife's allurement fell. Milton.

2. That which allures; any real or apparent good held forth, or
operating, as a motive to action; as, the allurements of pleasure, or
of honor.

ALLURER
Al*lur"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, allures.

ALLURING
Al*lur"ing, a.

Defn: That allures; attracting; charming; tempting.
 -- Al*lur"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Al*lur"ing*ness, n.

ALLUSION
Al*lu"sion, n. Etym: [L. allusio, fr. alludere to allude: cf. F.
allusion.]

1. A figurative or symbolical reference. [Obs.]

2. A reference to something supposed to be known, but not explicitly
mentioned; a covert indication; indirect reference; a hint.

ALLUSIVE
Al*lu"sive, a.

1. Figurative; symbolical.

2. Having reference to something not fully expressed; containing an
allusion.

ALLUSIVELY
Al*lu"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: Figuratively [Obs.]; by way of allusion; by implication,
suggestion, or insinuation.

ALLUSIVENESS
Al*lu"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being allusive.

ALLUSORY
Al*lu"so*ry, a.

Defn: Allusive. [R.] Warburton.

ALLUVIAL
Al*lu"vi*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alluvial. See Alluvion.]

Defn: Pertaining to, contained in, or composed of, alluvium; relating
to the deposits made by flowing water; washed away from one place and
deposited in another; as, alluvial soil, mud, accumulations,
deposits.

ALLUVION
Al*lu"vi*on, n. Etym: [F. alluvion, L. alluvio, fr. alluere to wash
against; ad + luere, equiv. to lavare, to wash. See Lave.]

1. Wash or flow of water against the shore or bank.

2. An overflowing; an inundation; a flood. Lyell.

3. Matter deposited by an inundation or the action of flowing water;
alluvium.
The golden alluvions are there [in California and Australia] spread
over a far wider space: they are found not only on the banks of
rivers, and in their beds, but are scattered over the surface of vast
plains. R. Cobden.

4. (Law)

Defn: An accession of land gradually washed to the shore or bank by
the flowing of water. See Accretion.

ALLUVIOUS
Al*lu"vi*ous, n. Etym: [L. alluvius. See Alluvion.]

Defn: Alluvial. [R.] Johnson.

ALLUVIUM
Al*lu"vi*um, n.; pl. E. Alluviums, L. Alluvia. Etym: [L., neut. of
alluvius. See Alluvious.] (Geol.)

Defn: Deposits of earth, sand, gravel, and other transported matter,
made by rivers, floods, or other causes, upon land not permanently
submerged beneath the waters of lakes or seas. Lyell.

ALLWHERE
All"where`, adv.

Defn: Everywhere. [Archaic]

ALLWORK
All"work`, n.

Defn: Domestic or other work of all kinds; as, a maid of allwork,
that is, a general servant.

ALLY
Al*ly", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Allied; p. pr. & vb. n. Allying.] Etym:
[OE. alien, OF. alier, F. alier, fr. L. alligare to bind to; ad +
ligare to bind. Cf. Alligate, Alloy, Allay, Ligament.]

1. To unite, or form a connection between, as between families by
marriage, or between princes and states by treaty, league, or
confederacy; -- often followed by to or with.
O chief! in blood, and now in arms allied. Pope.

2. To connect or form a relation between by similitude, resemblance,
friendship, or love.
These three did love each other dearly well, And with so firm
affection were allied. Spenser.
The virtue nearest to our vice allied. Pope.

Note: Ally is generally used in the passive form or reflexively.

ALLY
Al*ly", n.; pl. Allies. Etym: [See Ally, v.]

1. A relative; a kinsman. [Obs.] Shak.

2. One united to another by treaty or league; -- usually applied to
sovereigns or states; a confederate.
The English soldiers and their French allies. Macaulay.

3. Anything associated with another as a helper; an auxiliary.
Science, instead of being the enemy of religion, becomes its ally.
Buckle.

4. Anything akin to another by structure, etc.

ALLY
Al"ly, n.

Defn: See Alley, a marble or taw.

ALLYL
Al"lyl, n. Etym: [L. allium garlic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlic
and mustard.

ALLYLENE
Al"ly*lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H4, homologous with acetylene;
propine. CH3.C.CH

ALMA; ALMAH
Al"ma, Al"mah, n.

Defn: Same as Alme.

ALMACANTAR
Al`ma*can"tar, n. (Astron.)
(a) Same as Almucantar.
(b) A recently invented instrument for observing the heavenly bodies
as they cross a given almacantar circle. See Almucantar.

ALMADIA; ALMADIE
Al`ma*di"a, Al"ma*die, n. Etym: [F. almadie (cf. Sp. & Pg. almadia),
fr. Ar. alma'diyah a raft, float.] (Naut.)
(a) A bark canoe used by the Africans.
(b) A boat used at Calicut, in India, about eighty feet long, and six
or seven broad.

ALMAGEST
Al"ma*gest, n. Etym: [F. almageste, LL. almageste, Ar. al-majisti,
fr. Gr.

Defn: The celebrated work of Ptolemy of Alexandria, which contains
nearly all that is known of the astronomical observations and
theories of the ancients. The name was extended to other similar
works.

ALMAGRA
Al*ma"gra, n. Etym: [Sp. almagra, almagre, fr. Ar. al-maghrah red
clay or earth.]

Defn: A fine, deep red ocher, somewhat purplish, found in Spain. It
is the sil atticum of the ancients. Under the name of Indian red it
is used for polishing glass and silver.

ALMAIN; ALMAYNE; ALMAN
Al"main, Al"mayne, Al"man, n. Etym: [OF. Aleman, F. Allemand, fr. L.
Alemanni, ancient Ger. tribes.] [Obs.]

1. A German. Also adj.,

Defn: German. Shak.

2. The German language. J. Foxe.

3. A kind of dance. See Allemande. Almain rivets, Almayne rivets, or
Alman rivets, a sort of light armor from Germany, characterized by
overlapping plates, arranged to slide on rivets, and thus afford
great flexibility.

ALMA MATER
Al"ma Ma"ter. Etym: [L., fostering mother.]

Defn: A college or seminary where one is educated.

ALMANAC
Al"ma*nac, n. Etym: [LL. almanac, almanach: cf. F. almanach, Sp.
almanaque, It. almanacco, all of uncertain origin.]

Defn: A book or table, containing a calendar of days, and months, to
which astronomical data and various statistics are often added, such
as the times of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, eclipses,
hours of full tide, stated festivals of churches, terms of courts,
etc. Nautical almanac, an almanac, or year book, containing
astronomical calculations (lunar, stellar, etc.), and other
information useful to mariners.

ALMANDINE
Al"man*dine, n. Etym: [LL. almandina, alamandina, for L. alabandina a
precious stone, named after Alabanda, a town in Caria, where it was
first and chiefly found: cf. F. almandine.] (Min.)

Defn: The common red variety of garnet.

ALME; ALMEH
Al"me, Al"meh, n. Etym: [Ar. 'almah (fem.) learned, fr. 'alama to
know: cf. F. almée.]

Defn: An Egyptian dancing girl; an Alma.
The Almehs lift their arms in dance. Bayard Taylor.

ALMENDRON
Al`men*dron", n. Etym: [Sp., fr. almendra almond.]

Defn: The lofty Brazil-nut tree.

ALMERY
Al"mer*y, n.

Defn: See Ambry. [Obs.]

ALMESSE
Alm"esse, n.

Defn: See Alms. [Obs.]

ALMIGHTFUL; ALMIGHTIFUL
Al*might"ful, Al*might"i*ful, a.

Defn: All-powerful; almighty. [Obs.] Udall.

ALMIGHTILY
Al*might"i*ly, adv.

Defn: With almighty power.

ALMIGHTINESS
Al*might"i*ness, n.

Defn: Omnipotence; infinite or boundless power; unlimited might. Jer.
Taylor.

ALMIGHTY
Al*might"y, a. Etym: [AS. ealmihtig, ælmihtig; eal (OE. al) ail +
mihtig mighty.]

1. Unlimited in might; omnipotent; all-powerful; irresistible.
I am the Almighty God. Gen. xvii. 1.

2. Great; extreme; terrible. [Slang]
Poor Aroar can not live, and can not die, -- so that he is in an
almighty fix. De Quincey.
The Almighty, the omnipotent God. Rev. i. 8.

ALMNER
Alm"ner, n.

Defn: An almoner. [Obs.] Spenser.

ALMOND
Alm"ond, n. Etym: [OE. almande, almaunde, alemaunde, F. amande, L.
amygdala, fr. Gr. almendra. Cf. Amygdalate.]

1. The fruit of the almond tree.

Note: The different kinds, as bitter, sweet, thin-shelled, thick-
shelled almonds, and Jordan almonds, are the products of different
varieties of the one species, Amygdalus communis, a native of the
Mediterranean region and western Asia.

2. The tree bears the fruit; almond tree.

3. Anything shaped like an almond. Specifically: (Anat.)

Defn: One of the tonsils. Almond oil, fixed oil expressed from sweet
or bitter almonds.
 -- Oil of bitter almonds, a poisonous volatile oil obtained from
bitter almonds by maceration and distillation; benzoic aldehyde.
 -- Imitation oil of bitter almonds, nitrobenzene.
 -- Almond tree (Bot.), the tree bearing the almond.
 -- Almond willow (Bot.), a willow which has leaves that are of a
light green on both sides; almond-leaved willow (Salix amygdalina).
Shenstone.

ALMOND FURNACE
Al"mond fur`nace. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of Almain furnace, i. e.,
German furnace. See Almain.]

Defn: A kind of furnace used in refining, to separate the metal from
cinders and other foreign matter. Chambers.

ALMONDINE
Al"mon*dine, n.

Defn: See Almandine

ALMONER
Al"mon*er, n. Etym: [OE. aumener, aulmener, OF. almosnier, aumosnier,
F. aumônier, fr. OF. almosne, alms, L. eleemosyna. See Alms.]

Defn: One who distributes alms, esp. the doles and alms of religious
houses, almshouses, etc.; also, one who dispenses alms for another,
as the almoner of a prince, bishop, etc.

ALMONERSHIP
Al"mon*er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an almoner.

ALMONRY
Al"mon*ry, n.; pl. Almonries. Etym: [OF. aumosnerie, F. aumônerie,
fr. OF. aumosnier. See Almoner.]

Defn: The place where an almoner resides, or where alms are
distributed.

ALMOSE
Al"mose, n.

Defn: Alms. [Obs.] Cheke.

ALMOST
Al"most, adv. Etym: [AS. ealmæst, ælmæst, quite the most, almost all;
eal (OE. al) all + m most.]

Defn: Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part.
Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Acts xxvi. 28.
Almost never, scarcely ever.
 -- Almost nothing, scarcely anything.

ALMRY
Alm"ry, n.

Defn: See Almonry. [Obs.]

ALMS
Alms, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [OE. almes, almesse, AS. ælmysse, fr. L.
eleemosyna, Gr. Almonry, Eleemosynary.]

Defn: Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money,
food, or clothing; a gift of charity.
A devout man . . . which gave much alms to the people. Acts x. 2.
Alms are but the vehicles of prayer. Dryden.
Tenure by free alms. See Frankalmoign. Blackstone.

Note: This word alms is singular in its form (almesse), and is
sometimes so used; as, "asked an alms." Acts iii. 3."Received an
alms." Shak. It is now, however, commonly a collective or plural
noun. It is much used in composition, as almsgiver, almsgiving, alms
bag, alms chest, etc.

ALMSDEED
Alms"deed`, n.

Defn: An act of charity. Acts ix. 36.

ALMSFOLK
Alms"folk`, n.

Defn: Persons supported by alms; almsmen. [Archaic] Holinshed.

ALMSGIVER
Alms"giv`er, n.

Defn: A giver of alms.

ALMSGIVING
Alms"giv`ing, n.

Defn: The giving of alms.

ALMSHOUSE
Alms"house`, n.

Defn: A house appropriated for the use of the poor; a poorhouse.

ALMSMAN
Alms"man, n.; fem. Almswoman.

1. A recipient of alms. Shak.

2. A giver of alms. [R.] Halliwell.

ALMUCANTAR
Al`mu*can"tar, n. Etym: [F. almucantarat, almicantarat, ultimately
fr. Ar. al-muqantarat, pl., fr. qantara to bend, arch.] (Astron.)

Defn: A small circle of the sphere parallel to the horizon; a circle
or parallel of altitude. Two stars which have the same almucantar
have the same altitude. See Almacantar. [Archaic] Almucanter staff,
an ancient instrument, having an arc of fifteen degrees, formerly
used at sea to take observations of the sun's amplitude at the time
of its rising or setting, to find the variation of the compass.

ALMUCE
Al"muce, n.

Defn: Same as Amice, a hood or cape.

ALMUDE
Al*mude", n. Etym: [Pg. almude, or Sp. almud, a measure of grain or
dry fruit, fr. Ar. al-mudd a dry measure.]

Defn: A measure for liquids in several countries. In Portugal the
Lisbon almude is about 4.4, and the Oporto almude about 6.6, gallons
U. S. measure. In Turkey the "almud" is about 1.4 gallons.

ALMUG; ALGUM
Al"mug, Al"gum, n. Etym: [Heb., perh. borrowed fr. Skr. valguka
sandalwood.] (Script.)

Defn: A tree or wood of the Bible (2 Chron. ii. 8; 1 K. x. 11).

Note: Most writers at the present day follow Celsius, who takes it to
be the red sandalwood of China and the Indian Archipelago. W. Smith.

ALNAGE
Al"nage, n., Etym: [OF. alnage, aulnage, F. aunage, fr. OF. alne ell,
of Ger. origin: cf. OHG. elina, Goth. aleina, cubit. See Ell.] (O.
Eng. Law)

Defn: Measurement (of cloth) by the ell; also, a duty for such
measurement.

ALNAGER
Al"na*ger, n. Etym: [See Alnage.]

Defn: A measure by the ell; formerly a sworn officer in England,
whose duty was to inspect act measure woolen cloth, and fix upon it a
seal.

ALOE
Al"oe, n.; pl. Aloes. Etym: [L. aloë, Gr. aloe, F. aloès.]

1. pl.

Defn: The wood of the agalloch. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of succulent plants, some classed as trees, others as
shrubs, but the greater number having the habit and appearance of
evergreen herbaceous plants; from some of which are prepared articles
for medicine and the arts. They are natives of warm countries.

3. pl. (Med.)

Defn: The inspissated juice of several species of aloe, used as a
purgative. [Plural in form but syntactically singular.] American
aloe, Century aloe, the agave. See Agave.

ALOES WOOD
Al"oes wood`.

Defn: See Agalloch.

ALOETIC
Al`o*et"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aloétique.]

Defn: Consisting chiefly of aloes; of the nature of aloes.

ALOETIC
Al`o*et"ic, n.

Defn: A medicine containing chiefly aloes.

ALOFT
A*loft", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + loft, which properly meant air. See
Loft.]

1. On high; in the air; high above the ground. "He steers his flight
aloft." Milton.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: In the top; at the mast head, or on the higher yards or
rigging; overhead; hence (Fig. and Colloq.), in or to heaven.

ALOFT
A*loft", prep.

Defn: Above; on top of. [Obs.]
Fresh waters run aloft the sea. Holland.

ALOGIAN
A*lo"gi*an, n. Etym: [LL. Alogiani, Alogii, fr. Gr. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of an ancient sect who rejected St. John's Gospel and the
Apocalypse, which speak of Christ as the Logos. Shipley.

ALOGY
Al"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. alogia, Gr.

Defn: Unreasonableness; absurdity. [Obs.]

ALOIN
Al"o*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter purgative principle in aloes.

ALOMANCY
Al"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. alomancie, halomancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of salt. [Spelt also halomancy.] Morin.

ALONE
A*lone", a. Etym: [All + one. OE. al one all allone, AS. an one,
alone. See All, One, Lone.]

1. Quite by one's self; apart from, or exclusive of, others; single;
solitary; -- applied to a person or thing.
Alone on a wide, wide sea. Coleridge.
It is not good that the man should be alone. Gen. ii. 18.

2. Of or by itself; by themselves; without any thing more or any one
else; without a sharer; only.
Man shall not live by bread alone. Luke iv. 4.
The citizens alone should be at the expense. Franklin.

3. Sole; only; exclusive. [R.]
God, by whose alone power and conversation we all live, and move, and
have our being. Bentley.

4. Hence; Unique; rare; matchless. Shak.

Note: The adjective alone commonly follows its noun. To let or leave
alone, to abstain from interfering with or molesting; to suffer to
remain in its present state.

ALONE
A*lone", adv.

Defn: Solely; simply; exclusively.

ALONELY
A*lone"ly, adv.

Defn: Only; merely; singly. [Obs.]
This said spirit was not given alonely unto him, but unto all his
heirs and posterity. Latimer.

ALONELY
A*lone"ly, a.

Defn: Exclusive. [Obs.] Fabyan.

ALONENESS
A*lone"ness, n.

Defn: A state of being alone, or without company; solitariness. [R.]
Bp. Montagu.

ALONG
A*long", adv. Etym: [OE. along, anlong, AS. andlang, along; pref.
and- (akin to OFris. ond-, OHG. ant-, Ger. ent-, Goth. and-, anda-,
L. ante, Gr. anti, over against) + lang long. See Long.]

1. By the length; in a line with the length; lengthwise.
Some laid along . . . on spokes of wheels are hung. Dryden.

2. In a line, or with a progressive motion; onward; forward.
We will go along by the king's highway. Numb. xxi. 22.
He struck with his o'ertaking wings, And chased us south along.
Coleridge.

3. In company; together.
He to England shall along with you. Shak.
All along, all trough the course of; during the whole time;
throughout. "I have all along declared this to be a neutral paper."
Addison.
 -- To get along, to get on; to make progress, as in business. "She
'll get along in heaven better than you or I." Mrs. Stowe.

ALONG
A*long", prep.

Defn: By the length of, as distinguished from across. "Along the
lowly lands." Dryden.
The kine . . . went along the highway. 1 Sam. vi. 12.

ALONG
A*long". Etym: [AS. gelang owing to.]

Defn: (Now heard only in the prep. phrase along of.) Along of, Along
on, often shortened to Long of, prep. phr., owing to; on account of.
[Obs. or Low. Eng.] "On me is not along thin evil fare." Chaucer.
"And all this is long of you." Shak. "This increase of price is all
along of the foreigners." London Punch.

ALONGSHORE
A*long"shore`, adv.

Defn: Along the shore or coast.

ALONGSHOREMAN
A*long"shore`man, n.

Defn: See Longshoreman.

ALONGSIDE
A*long"side`, adv.

Defn: Along or by the side; side by side with; -- often with of; as,
bring the boat alongside; alongside of him; alongside of the tree.

ALONGST
A*longst", prep. & adv. Etym: [Formed fr. along, like amongst fr.
among.]

Defn: Along. [Obs.]

ALOOF
A*loof", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Alewife.

ALOOF
A*loof", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + loof, fr. D. loef luff, and so
meaning, as a nautical word, to the windward. See Loof, Luff.]

1. At or from a distance, but within view, or at a small distance;
apart; away.
Our palace stood aloof from streets. Dryden.

2. Without sympathy; unfavorably.
To make the Bible as from the hand of God, and then to look at it
aloof and with caution, is the worst of all impieties. I. Taylor.

ALOOF
A*loof", prep.

Defn: Away from; clear from. [Obs.]
Rivetus . . . would fain work himself aloof these rocks and
quicksands. Milton.

ALOOFNESS
A*loof"ness, n.

Defn: State of being aloof. Rogers (1642).
The . . . aloofness of his dim forest life. Thoreau.

ALOPECIA; ALOPECY
Al`o*pe"ci*a, A*lop"e*cy, n. Etym: [L. alopecia, Gr. (med.)

Defn: Loss of the hair; baldness.

ALOPECIST
A*lop"e*cist, n.

Defn: A practitioner who tries to prevent or cure baldness.

ALOSE
A*lose", v. t. Etym: [OE. aloser.]

Defn: To praise. [Obs.]

ALOSE
A"lose, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. alosa or alausa.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European shad (Clupea alosa); -- called also allice shad or
allis shad. The name is sometimes applied to the American shad
(Clupea sapidissima). See Shad.

ALOUATTE
Al`ou*atte", n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the several species of howling monkeys of South America.
See Howler, 2.

ALOUD
A*loud", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + loud.]

Defn: With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly.
Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice. Isa. lviii. 1.

ALOW
A*low", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + low.]

Defn: Below; in a lower part. "Aloft, and then alow." Dryden.

ALP
Alp, n. Etym: [L. Alpes the Alps, said to be of Celtic origin; cf.
Gael. alp a high mountain, Ir. ailp any huge mass or lump: cf. F.
Alpes.]

1. A very high mountain. Specifically, in the plural, the highest
chain of mountains in Europe, containing the lofty mountains of
Switzerland, etc.
Nor breath of vernal air from snowy alp. Milton.
Hills peep o'er hills, and alps on alps arise. Pope.

2. Fig.: Something lofty, or massive, or very hard to be surmounted.

Note: The plural form Alps is sometimes used as a singular. "The Alps
doth spit." Shak.

ALP
Alp, n.

Defn: A bullfinch. Rom. of R.

ALPACA
Al*pac"a, n. Etym: [Sp. alpaca, fr. the original Peruvian name of the
animal. Cf. Paco.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal of Peru (Lama paco), having long, fine, wooly hair,
supposed by some to be a domesticated variety of the llama.

2. Wool of the alpaca.

3. A thin kind of cloth made of the wooly hair of the alpaca, often
mixed with silk or with cotton.

ALPEN
Al"pen, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Alps. [R.] "The Alpen snow." J.
Fletcher.

ALPENGLOW
Al"pen*glow`, n.

Defn: A reddish glow seen near sunset or sunrise on the summits of
mountains; specif., a reillumination sometimes observed after the
summits have passed into shadow, supposed to be due to a curving
downward (refraction) of the light rays from the west resulting from
the cooling of the air.

ALPENHORN; ALPHORN
{ Al"pen*horn`, Alp"horn`  }, n. [G. Alpenhorn.]

Defn: A curved wooden horn about three feet long, with a cupped
mouthpiece and a bell, used by the Swiss to sound the ranz des vaches
and other melodies. Its notes are open harmonics of the tube.

ALPENSTOCK
Al"pen*stock`, n. Etym: [G.; Alp, gen. pl. Alpen + stock stick.]

Defn: A long staff, pointed with iron, used in climbing the Alps.
Cheever.

ALPESTRINE
Al*pes"trine, a. Etym: [L. Alpestris.]

Defn: Pertaining to the Alps, or other high mountains; as, Alpestrine
diseases, etc.

ALPHA
Al"pha, n. Etym: [L. alpha, Gr. 'a`lfa, from Heb. aleph, name of the
first letter in the alphabet, also meaning ox.]

Defn: The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, and
hence used to denote the beginning.
In am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the
last. Rev. xxii. 13.

Note: Formerly used also denote the chief; as, Plato was the alpha of
the wits.

Note: In cataloguing stars, the brightest star of a constellation in
designated by Alpha (a); as, a Lyræ.

ALPHABET
Al"pha*bet, n. Etym: [L. alphabetum, fr. Gr. aleph and beth: cf. F.
alphabet.]

1. The letters of a language arranged in the customary order; the
series of letters or signs which form the elements of written
language.

2. The simplest rudiments; elements.
The very alphabet of our law. Macaulay.
Deaf and dumb alphabet. See Dactylology.

ALPHABET
Al"pha*bet, v. t.

Defn: To designate by the letters of the alphabet; to arrange
alphabetically. [R.]

ALPHABETARIAN
Al`pha*bet*a"ri*an, n.

Defn: A learner of the alphabet; an abecedarian. Abp. Sancroft.

ALPHABETIC; ALPHABETICAL
Al`pha*bet"ic, Al`pha*bet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alphabétique.]

1. Pertaining to, furnished with, expressed by, or in the order of,
the letters of the alphabet; as, alphabetic characters, writing,
languages, arrangement.

2. Literal. [Obs.] "Alphabetical servility." Milton.

ALPHABETICALLY
Al`pha*bet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an alphabetic manner; in the customary order of the letters.

ALPHABETICS
Al`pha*bet"ics, n.

Defn: The science of representing spoken sounds by letters.

ALPHABETISM
Al"pha*bet*ism, n.

Defn: The expression of spoken sounds by an alphabet. Encyc. Brit.

ALPHABETIZE
Al"pha*bet*ize, v. t.

1. To arrange alphabetically; as, to alphabetize a list of words.

2. To furnish with an alphabet.

ALPHA PAPER
Al"pha pa"per. (Photog.)

Defn: A sensitized paper for obtaining positives by artificial light.
It is coated with gelatin containing silver bromide and chloride.
[Eng.]

ALPHA RAYS
Alpha rays. (Physics & Chem.)

Defn: Rays of relatively low penetrating power emitted by radium and
other radioactive substances, and shown to consist of positively
charged particles (perhaps particles of helium) having enormous
velocities but small masses. They are slightly deflected by a strong
magnetic or electric field.

AL-PHITOMANCY
Al-phit"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. mancy: cf. F. alphitomancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of barley meal. Knowles.

ALPHOL
Al"phol, n.  [Alpha- + -ol as in alcohol.] (Pharm.)

Defn: A crystalline derivative of salicylic acid, used as an
antiseptic and antirheumatic.

ALPHONSINE
Al*phon"sine, a.

Defn: Of or relating to Alphonso X., the Wise, King of Castile (1252-
1284). Alphonsine tables, astronomical tables prepared under the
patronage of Alphonso the Wise. Whewell.

ALPIGENE
Al"pi*gene, a. Etym: [L. Alpes Alps + -gen.]

Defn: Growing in Alpine regions.

ALPINE
Al"pine, a. Etym: [L. Alpinus, fr. Alpes the Alps: cf. F. Alpin.]

1. Of or pertaining to the Alps, or to any lofty mountain; as, Alpine
snows; Alpine plants.

2. Like the Alps; lofty. "Gazing up an Alpine height." Tennyson.

ALPINIST
Al"pin*ist, n.

Defn: A climber of the Alps.

ALPIST; ALPIA
Al"pist, Al"pi*a, n. Etym: [F.: cf. Sp. & Pg. alpiste.]

Defn: The seed of canary grass (Phalaris Canariensis), used for
feeding cage birds.

ALQUIFOU
Al"qui*fou, n. Etym: [Equiv. to arquifoux, F. alquifoux, Sp.
alquifól, fr. the same Arabic word as alcohol. See Alcohol.]

Defn: A lead ore found in Cornwall, England, and used by potters to
give a green glaze to their wares; potter's ore.

ALREADY
Al*read"y, adv. Etym: [All (OE. al) + ready.]

Defn: Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future;
by this time; previously. "Joseph was in Egypt already." Exod. i. 5.
I say unto you, that Elias is come already. Matt. xvii. 12.

Note: It has reference to past time, but may be used for a future
past; as, when you shall arrive, the business will be already
completed, or will have been already completed.

ALS
Als, adv.

1. Also. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. As. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ALSATIAN
Al*sa"tian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Alsatia.

ALSATIAN
Al*sa"tian, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of Alsatia or Alsace in Germany, or of Alsatia or
White Friars (a resort of debtors and criminals) in London.

AL SEGNO
Al` se"gno. Etym: [It., to the mark or sign.](Mus.)

Defn: A direction for the performer to return and recommence from the
sign

ALSIKE
Al"sike, n. Etym: [From Alsike, in Sweden.]

Defn: A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifolium
hybridum.

ALSO
Al"so, adv. & conj. Etym: [All + so. OE. al so, AS. ealswa, alsw,
ælswæ; eal, al, æl, all + swa so. See All, So, As.]

1. In like manner; likewise. [Obs.]

2. In addition; besides; as well; further; too.
Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven . . . for where your
treasure is, there will your heart be also. Matt. vi. 20.

3. Even as; as; so. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Also, Likewise, Too. These words are used by way of transition,
in leaving one thought and passing to another. Also is the widest
term. It denotes that what follows is all so, or entirely like that
which preceded, or may be affirmed with the same truth; as, "If you
were there, I was there also;" "If our situation has some
discomforts, it has also many sources of enjoyment." Too is simply
less formal and pointed than also; it marks the transition with a
lighter touch; as, "I was there too;" "a courtier yet a patriot too."
Pope. Likewise denotes literally "in like manner," and hence has been
thought by some to be more specific than also. "It implies," says
Whately, "some connection or agreement between the words it unites.
We may say, ` He is a poet, and likewise a musician; ' but we should
not say, ` He is a prince, and likewise a musician,' because there is
no natural connection between these qualities." This distinction,
however, is often disregarded.

ALT
Alt, a. & n. Etym: [See Alto.] (Mus.)

Defn: The higher part of the scale. See Alto. To be in alt, to be in
an exalted state of mind.

ALTAIAN; ALTAIC
Al*ta"ian, Al*ta"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. altaïque.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Altai, a mountain chain in Central
Asia.

ALTAR
Al"tar, n. Etym: [OE. alter, auter, autier, fr. L. altare, pl.
altaria, altar, prob. fr. altus high: cf. OF. alter, autier, F.
autel. Cf. Altitude.]

1. A raised structure (as a square or oblong erection of stone or
wood) on which sacrifices are offered or incense burned to a deity.
Noah builded an altar unto the Lord. Gen. viii. 20.

2. In the Christian church, a construction of stone, wood, or other
material for the celebration of the Holy Eucharist; the communion
table.

Note: Altar is much used adjectively, or as the first part of a
compound; as, altar bread or altar-bread. Altar cloth or Altar-cloth,
the cover for an altar in a Christian church, usually richly
embroidered.
 -- Altar cushion, a cushion laid upon the altar in a Christian
church to support the service book.
 -- Altar frontal. See Frontal.
 -- Altar rail, the railing in front of the altar or communion table.
 -- Altar screen, a wall or partition built behind an altar to
protect it from approach in the rear.
 -- Altar tomb, a tomb resembling an altar in shape, etc.
 -- Family altar, place of family devotions.
 -- To lead (as a bride) to the altar, to marry; -- said of a woman.

ALTARAGE
Al"tar*age, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. auterage, autelage.]

1. The offerings made upon the altar, or to a church.

2. The profit which accrues to the priest, by reason of the altar,
from the small tithes. Shipley.

ALTARIST
Al"tar*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. altarista, F. altariste.] (Old Law)
(a) A chaplain.
(b) A vicar of a church.

ALTARPIECE
Al"tar*piece`, n.

Defn: The painting or piece of sculpture above and behind the altar;
reredos.

ALTARWISE
Al"tar*wise`, adv.

Defn: In the proper position of an altar, that is, at the east of a
church with its ends towards the north and south. Shipley.

ALTAZIMUTH
Alt*az"i*muth, n. Etym: [Alltude + azimuth.] (Astron.)

Defn: An instrument for taking azimuths and altitudes simultaneously.

ALTER
Al"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Altered; p. pr. & vb. n. Altering.] Etym:
[F. altérer, LL. alterare, fr. L. alter other, alius other. Cf. Else,
Other.]

1. To make otherwise; to change in some respect, either partially or
wholly; to vary; to modify. "To alter the king's course." "To alter
the condition of a man." "No power in Venice can alter a decree."
Shak.
It gilds all objects, but it alters none. Pope.
My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of
my lips. Ps. lxxxix. 34.

2. To agitate; to affect mentally. [Obs.] Milton.

3. To geld. [Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- Change, Alter. Change is generic and the stronger term. It may
express a loss of identity, or the substitution of one thing in place
of another; alter commonly expresses a partial change, or a change in
form or details without destroying identity.

ALTER
Al"ter, v. i.

Defn: To become, in some respects, different; to vary; to change; as,
the weather alters almost daily; rocks or minerals alter by exposure.
"The law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not." Dan. vi. 8.

ALTERABILITY
Al`ter*a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. altérabilité.]

Defn: The quality of being alterable; alterableness.

ALTERABLE
Al"ter*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. altérable.]

Defn: Capable of being altered.
Our condition in this world is mutable and uncertain, alterable by a
thousand accidents. Rogers.

ALTERABLENESS
Al"ter*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alterable; variableness; alterability.

ALTERABLY
Al"ter*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an alterable manner.

ALTERANT
Al"ter*ant, a. Etym: [LL. alterans, p. pr.: cf. F. altérant.]

Defn: Altering; gradually changing. Bacon.

ALTERANT
Al"ter*ant, n.

Defn: An alterative. [R.] Chambers.

ALTERATION
Al`ter*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. altération.]

1. The act of altering or making different.
Alteration, though it be from worse to better, hath in it
incoveniences. Hooker.

2. The state of being altered; a change made in the form or nature of
a thing; changed condition.
Ere long might perceive Strange alteration in me. Milton.
Appius Claudius admitted to the senate the sons of those who had been
slaves; by which, and succeeding alterations, that council
degenerated into a most corrupt. Swift.

ALTERATIVE
Al"ter*a*tive, a. Etym: [L. alterativus: cf. F. altératif.]

Defn: Causing ateration. Specifically:

Defn: Gradually changing, or tending to change, a morbid state of the
functions into one of health. Burton.

ALTERATIVE
Al"ter*a*tive, n.

Defn: A medicine or treatment which gradually induces a change, and
restores healthy functions without sensible evacuations.

ALTERCATE
Al"ter*cate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Altercated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Altercating.] Etym: [L. altercatus, p. p. of altercare, altercari,
fr. alter another. See Alter.]

Defn: The contend in words; to dispute with zeal, heat, or anger; to
wrangle.

ALTERCATION
Al`ter*ca"tion, n. Etym: [F. altercation, fr. L. altercatio.]

Defn: Warm contention in words; dispute carried on with heat or
anger; controversy; wrangle; wordy contest. "Stormy altercations."
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Altercation, Dispute, Wrangle. The term dispute is in most cases,
but not necessarily, applied to a verbal contest; as, a dispute on
the lawfulness of war. An altercation is an angry dispute between two
parties, involving an interchange of severe language. A wrangle is a
confused and noisy altercation.
Their whole life was little else than a perpetual wrangling and
altercation. Hakewill.

ALTERCATIVE
Al"ter*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by wrangling; scolding. [R.] Fielding.

ALTERITY
Al*ter"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. altérité.]

Defn: The state or quality of being other; a being otherwise. [R.]
For outness is but the feeling of otherness (alterity) rendered
intuitive, or alterity visually represented. Coleridge.

ALTERN
Al"tern, a. Etym: [L. alternus, fr. alter another: cf. F. alterne.]

Defn: Acting by turns; alternate. Milton. Altern base (Trig.), a
second side made base, in distinction from a side previously regarded
as base.

ALTERNACY
Al*ter"na*cy, n.

Defn: Alternateness; alternation. [R.] Mitford.

ALTERNANT
Al*ter"nant, a. Etym: [L. alternans, p. pr.: cf. F. alternant. See
Alternate, v. t.] (Geol.)

Defn: Composed of alternate layers, as some rocks.

ALTERNAT
Al`ter`nat", n. [F.]

Defn: A usage, among diplomats, of rotation in precedence among
representatives of equal rank, sometimes determined by lot and at
other times in regular order. The practice obtains in the signing of
treaties and conventions between nations.

ALTERNATE
Al*ter"nate, a. Etym: [L. alternatus, p. p. of alternate, fr.
alternus. See Altern, Alter.]

1. Being or succeeding by turns; one following the other in
succession of time or place; by turns first one and then the other;
hence, reciprocal.
And bid alternate passions fall and rise. Pope.

2. Designating the members in a series, which regularly intervene
between the members of another series, as the odd or even numbers of
the numerals; every other; every second; as, the alternate members 1,
3, 5, 7, etc. ; read every alternate line.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Distributed, as leaves, singly at different heights of the
stem, and at equal intervals as respects angular divergence. Gray.
Alternate alligation. See Alligation.
 -- Alternate angles (Geom.), the internal and angles made by two
lines with a third, on opposite sides of it. It the parallels AB, CD,
are cut by the line EF, the angles AGH, GHD, as also the angles BGH
and GHC, are called alternate angles.
 -- Alternate generation. (Biol.) See under Generation.

ALTERNATE
Al*ter"nate, n.

1. That which alternates with something else; vicissitude. [R.]
Grateful alternates of substantial. Prior.

2. A substitute; one designated to take the place of another, if
necessary, in performing some duty.

3. (Math.)

Defn: A proportion derived from another proportion by interchanging
the means.

ALTERNATE
Al"ter*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Alternated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Alternating.] Etym: [L. alternatus, p. p. of alternare. See Altern.]

Defn: To perform by turns, or in succession; to cause to succeed by
turns; to interchange regularly.
The most high God, in all things appertaining unto this life, for
sundry wise ends alternates the disposition of good and evil. Grew.

ALTERNATE
Al"ter*nate, v. i.

1. To happen, succeed, or act by turns; to follow reciprocally in
place or time; -- followed by with; as, the flood and ebb tides
alternate with each other.
Rage, shame, and grief alternate in his breast. J. Philips.
Different species alternating with each other. Kirwan.

2. To vary by turns; as, the land alternates between rocky hills and
sandy plains.

ALTERNATELY
Al*ter"nate*ly, adv.

1. In reciprocal succession; succeeding by turns; in alternate order.

2. (Math.)

Defn: By alternation; when, in a proportion, the antecedent term is
compared with antecedent, and consequent.

ALTERNATENESS
Al*ter"nate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alternate, or of following by turns.

ALTERNATING CURRENT
Al"ter*nat`ing cur"rent. (Elec.)

Defn: A current which periodically changes or reverses its direction
of flow.

ALTERNATION
Al`ter*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. alternatio: cf. F. alternation.]

1. The reciprocal succession of things in time or place; the act of
following and being followed by turns; alternate succession,
performance, or occurrence; as, the alternation of day and night,
cold and heat, summer and winter, hope and fear.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Permutation.

3. The response of the congregation speaking alternately with the
minister. Mason. Alternation of generation. See under Generation.

ALTERNATIVE
Al*ter"na*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. alternatif.]

1. Offering a choice of two things.

2. Disjunctive; as, an alternative conjunction.

3. Alternate; reciprocal. [Obs.] Holland.

ALTERNATIVE
Al*ter"na*tive, n. Etym: [Cf. F. alternative, LL. alternativa.]

1. An offer of two things, one of which may be chosen, but not both;
a choice between two things, so that if one is taken, the other must
be left.
There is something else than the mere alternative of absolute
destruction or unreformed existence. Burke.

2. Either of two things or propositions offered to one's choice. Thus
when two things offer a choice of one only, the two things are called
alternatives.
Having to choose between two alternatives, safety and war, you
obstinately prefer the worse. Jowett (Thucyd. ).

3. The course of action or the thing offered in place of another.
If this demand is refused the alternative is war. Lewis.
With no alternative but death. Longfellow.

4. A choice between more than two things; one of several things
offered to choose among.
My decided preference is for the fourth and last of thalternatives.
Gladstone.

ALTERNATIVELY
Al*ter"na*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of alternatives, or that admits the choice of one
out of two things.

ALTERNATIVENESS
Al*ter"na*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being alternative, or of offering a choice
between two.

ALTERNATOR
Al"ter*na`tor, n. (Elec.)

Defn: An electric generator or dynamo for producing alternating
currents.

ALTERNITY
Al*ter"ni*ty, n. Etym: [LL. alternitas.]

Defn: Succession by turns; alternation. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

ALTHAEA; ALTHEA
Al*thæ"a, Al*the"a, n. Etym: [althaea, Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A genus of plants of the Mallow family. It includes the officinal
marsh mallow, and the garden hollyhocks.
(b) An ornamental shrub (Hibiscus Syriacus) of the Mallow family.

ALTHEINE
Al*the"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Asparagine.

ALTHING
Al"thing, n. [Icel. (modern) alping, earlier alpingi; allr all + ping
assembly. See All, and Thing.]

Defn: The national assembly or parliament of Iceland. See Thing, n.,
8.

ALTHO
Al*tho", conj.

Defn: Although. [Reformed spelling] Alt"horn`, n. Etym: [Alt + horn.]
(Mus.)

Defn: An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively in
military music, often replacing the French horn. Grove.

ALTHORN
Alt"horn`, n. [Alt + horn.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively in
military music, often replacing the French horn. Grove.

ALTHOUGH
Al*though", conj. Etym: [All + though; OE. al thagh.]

Defn: Grant all this; be it that; supposing that; notwithstanding;
though.
Although all shall be offended, yet will no I. Mark xiv. 29.

Syn.
 -- Although, Though. Although, which originally was perhaps more
emphatic than though, is now interchangeable with it in the sense
given above. Euphonic consideration determines the choice.

ALTILOQUENCE
Al*til"o*quence, n.

Defn: Lofty speech; pompous language. [R.] Bailey.

ALTILOQUENT
Al*til"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. altus (adv. alte) high + loquens, p. pr.
of loqui to speak.]

Defn: High-sounding; pompous in speech. [R.] Bailey.

ALTIMETER
Al*tim"e*ter, n. Etym: [LL. altimeter; altus high + metrum, Gr.
altimètre.]

Defn: An instrument for taking altitudes, as a quadrant, sextant,
etc. Knight.

ALTIMETRY
Al*tim"e*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. altimétrie.]

Defn: The art of measuring altitudes, or heights.

ALTINCAR
Al*tin"car, n.

Defn: See Tincal.

ALTISCOPE
Al"ti*scope, n. Etym: [L. altus high + Gr.

Defn: An arrangement of lenses and mirrors which enables a person to
see an object in spite of intervening objects.

ALTISONANT
Al*tis"o*nant, a. Etym: [L. altus high + sonans, p. pr. of sonare to
sound.]

Defn: High-sounding; lofty or pompous. Skelton.

ALTISONOUS
Al*tis"o*nous, a. Etym: [L. altisonus.]

Defn: Altisonant.

ALTISSIMO
Al*tis"si*mo, n. Etym: [It.; superl. of alto.] (Mus.)

Defn: The part or notes situated above F in alt.

ALTITUDE
Al"ti*tude, n. Etym: [L. altitudo, fr. altus high. Cf. Altar,
Haughty, Enhance.]

1. Space extended upward; height; the perpendicular elevation of an
object above its foundation, above the ground, or above a given
level, or of one object above another; as, the altitude of a
mountain, or of a bird above the top of a tree.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The elevation of a point, or star, or other celestial object,
above the horizon, measured by the arc of a vertical circle
intercepted between such point and the horizon. It is either true or
apparent; true when measured from the rational or real horizon,
apparent when from the sensible or apparent horizon.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: The perpendicular distance from the base of a figure to the
summit, or to the side parallel to the base; as, the altitude of a
triangle, pyramid, parallelogram, frustum, etc.

4. Height of degree; highest point or degree.
He is [proud] even to the altitude of his virtue. Shak.

5. Height of rank or excellence; superiority. Swift.

6. pl.

Defn: Elevation of spirits; heroics; haughty airs. [Colloq.]
Richardson.
The man of law began to get into his altitude. Sir W. Scott.
Meridian altitude, an arc of the meridian intercepted between the
south point on the horizon and any point on the meridian. See
Meridian, 3.

ALTITUDINAL
Al`ti*tu"di*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to height; as, altitudinal measurements.

ALTITUDINARIAN
Al`ti*tu`di*na"ri*an, a.

Defn: Lofty in doctrine, aims, etc. [R.] Coleridge.

ALTIVOLANT
Al*tiv"o*lant, a. Etym: [L. altivolans. See Volant.]

Defn: Flying high. [Obs.] Blount.

ALTO
Al"to, n.; pl. Altos. Etym: [It. alto high, fr. L. altus. Cf. Alt.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor,
voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices,
between in tenor and soprano. In instrumental music it now signifies
the tenor.

2. An alto singer. Alto clef (Mus.) the counter-tenor clef, or the C
clef, placed so that the two strokes include the middle line of the
staff. Moore.

ALTO-CUMULUS
Al`to-cu"mu*lus, n. [L. altus high + L. & E. cumulus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A fleecy cloud formation consisting of large whitish or grayish
globular cloudlets with shaded  portions, often grouped in flocks or
rows.

ALTOGETHER
Al`to*geth"er, adv. Etym: [OE. altogedere; al all + togedere
together. See Together.]

1. All together; conjointly. [Obs.]
Altogether they wenChaucer.

2. Without exception; wholly; completely.
Every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Ps. xxxix. 5.

ALTOMETER
Al*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. altus high + -meter.]

Defn: A theodolite. Knight.

ALTO-RELIEVO
Al"to-re*lie"vo, n.

Defn: Alto-rilievo.

ALTO-RILIEVO
Al"to-ri*lie*vo, n.; pl. Alto-rilievos. Etym: [It.] (Sculp.)

Defn: High relief; sculptured work in which the figures project more
than half their thickness; as, this figure is an alto-rilievo or in
alto-rilievo.

Note: When the figure stands only half out, it is called mezzo-
rilievo, demi-rilievo, or medium relief; when its projection is less
than one half, basso-rilievo, bas-relief, or low relief.

ALTO-STRATUS
Al`to-stra"tus, n. [L. altus high + L. & E. stratus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A cloud formation similar to cirro-stratus, but heavier and at
a lower level.

ALTRICAL
Al"tri*cal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like the articles.

ALTRICES
Al*tri"ces, n. pl. Etym: [L., nourishes, pl. of altrix.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Nursers, -- a term applied to those birds whose young are
hatched in a very immature and helpless condition, so as to require
the care of their parents for some time; -- opposed to præcoces.

ALTRUISM
Al"tru*ism, n. Etym: [F. altruisme (a word of Comte's), It. altrui of
or to others, fr. L. alter another.]

Defn: Regard for others, both natural and moral; devotion to the
interests of others; brotherly kindness; -- opposed to egoism or
selfishness. [Recent] J. S. Mill.

ALTRUIST
Al"tru*ist, n.

Defn: One imbued with altruism; -- opposed to egoist.

ALTRUISTIC
Al`tru*is"tic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. altruiste, a. See Altruism..]

Defn: Regardful of others; beneficent; unselfish; -- opposed to Ant:
egoistic or Ant: selfish. Bain.
 -- Al`tru*is"tic*al*ly, adv.

ALUDEL
Al"u*del, n. Etym: [F. & Sp. aludel, fr. Ar. aluthal.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed as
to be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another in
succession; -- used in the process of sublimation. Ure.

ALULA
Al"u*la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. ala a wing.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard.

ALULAR
Al"u*lar, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the alula.

ALUM
Al"um, n. Etym: [OE. alum, alom, OF. alum, F. alun, fr. L. alumen
alum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element
(esp. an alkali metal) or of aluminium. It has twenty-four molecules
of water of crystallization.

Note: Common alum is the double sulphate of aluminium and potassium.
It is white, transparent, very astringent, and crystallizes easily in
octahedrons. The term is extended so as to include other double
sulphates similar to alum in formula.

ALUM
Al"um, v. t.

Defn: To steep in, or otherwise impregnate with, a solution of alum;
to treat with alum. Ure.

ALUMEN
A*lu"men, n. Etym: [L.] (Chem.)

Defn: Alum.

ALUMINA
A*lu"mi*na, n. Etym: [L. alumen, aluminis. See Alum.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the earths, consisting of two parts of aluminium and
three of oxygen, Al2O3.

Note: It is the oxide of the metal aluminium, the base of aluminous
salts, a constituent of a large part of the earthy siliceous
minerals, as the feldspars, micas, scapolites, etc., and the
characterizing ingredient of common clay, in which it exists as an
impure silicate with water, resulting from the decomposition of other
aluminous minerals. In its natural state, it is the mineral corundum.

ALUMINATE
A*lu`mi*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound formed from the hydrate of aluminium by the
substitution of a metal for the hydrogen.

ALUMINATED
A*lu"mi*na`ted. a.

Defn: Combined with alumina.

ALUMINE
Al"u*mine, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Alumina. Davy.

ALUMINIC
Al`u*min"ic, a.

Defn: Of or containing aluminium; as, aluminic phosphate.

ALUMINIFEROUS
A*lu`mi*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. alumen alum + -ferous: cf. F.
aluminifère.]

Defn: Containing alum.

ALUMINIFORM
A*lu"mi*ni*form, a. Etym: [L. alumen + -form.]

Defn: pertaining the form of alumina.

ALUMINIUM
Al`u*min"i*um, n. Etym: [L. alumen. See Alum.] (Chem.)

Defn: The metallic base of alumina. This metal is white, but with a
bluish tinge, and is remarkable for its resistance to oxidation, and
for its lightness, pertaining a specific gravity of about 2.6. Atomic
weight 27.08. Symbol Al. Aluminium bronze or gold, a pale gold-
colored alloy of aluminium and copper, used for journal bearings,
etc.

ALUMINIZE
A*lu"mi*nize, v. t.

Defn: To treat impregnate with alum; to alum.

ALUMINOGRAPHY
A*lu`mi*nog"ra*phy, n. [Alumin-ium + -graphy.]

Defn: Art or process of producing, and printing from, aluminium
plates, after the manner of ordinary lithography. --
A*lu`mi*no*graph"ic (#), a.

ALUMINOUS
A*lu"mi*nous, a. Etym: [L. aluminosus, fr. alumen alum: cf. F.
alumineux.]

Defn: Pertaining to or containing alum, or alumina; as, aluminous
minerals, aluminous solution.

ALUMINUM
A*lu"mi*num, n.

Defn: See Aluminium.

ALUMISH
Al"um*ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat like alum.

ALUMNA
A*lum"na, n. fem.; pl. Alumnæ . Etym: [L. See Alumnus.]

Defn: A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college.

ALUMNUS
A*lum"nus, n.; pl. Alumni. Etym: [L., fr. alere to nourish.]

Defn: A pupil; especially, a graduate of a college or other seminary
of learning.

ALUM ROOT
Al"um root`. (Bot.)

Defn: A North American herb (Heuchera Americana) of the Saxifrage
family, whose root has astringent properties.

ALUM SCHIST; ALUM SHALE
Al"um schist", Al"um shale", (Min.)

Defn: A variety of shale or clay slate, containing iron pyrites, the
decomposition of which leads to the formation of alum, which often
effloresces on the rock.

ALUM STONE
Al"um stone`. (Min.)

Defn: A subsulphate of alumina and potash; alunite.

ALUNITE
Al"u*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Alum stone.

ALUNOGEN
A*lu"no*gen, n. Etym: [F. alun alum + -gen.] (Min.)

Defn: A white fibrous mineral frequently found on the walls of mines
and quarries, chiefly hydrous sulphate of alumina; -- also called
feather alum, and hair salt.

ALURE
Al"ure, n. Etym: [OF. alure, aleure, walk, gait, fr. aler (F. aller)
to go.]

Defn: A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds.
The sides of every street were covered with fresh alures of marble.
T. Warton.

ALUTACEOUS
Al"u*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. alutacius, fr. aluta soft leather.]

1. Leathery.

2. Of a pale brown color; leather-yellow. Brande.

ALUTATION
Al`u*ta"tion, n. Etym: [See Alutaceous.]

Defn: The tanning or dressing of leather. [Obs.] Blount.

ALVEARY
Al"ve*a*ry, n.; pl. Alvearies. Etym: [L. alvearium, alveare, beehive,
fr. alveus a hollow vessel, beehive, from alvus belly, beehive.]

1. A beehive, or something resembling a beehive. Barret.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The hollow of the external ear. Quincy.

ALVEATED
Al"ve*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. alveatus hollowed out.]

Defn: Formed or vaulted like a beehive.

ALVEOLAR
Al"ve*o*lar, a. Etym: [L. alveolus a small hollow or cavity: cf. F.
alvéolaire.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells,
sacs, or sockets. Alveolar processes, the processes of the maxillary
bones, containing the sockets of the teeth.

ALVEOLARY
Al"ve*o*la*ry, a.

Defn: Alveolar. [R.]

ALVEOLATE
Al"ve*o*late, a. Etym: [L. alveolatus, fr. alveolus.] (Bot.)

Defn: Deeply pitted, like a honeycomb.

ALVEOLE
Al"ve*ole, n.

Defn: Same as Alveolus.

ALVEOLIFORM
Al*ve"o*li*form, a. Etym: [L. alvelous + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of alveoli, or little sockets, cells, or
cavities.

ALVEOLUS
Al*ve"o*lus, n.; pl. Alveoli. Etym: [L., a small hollow or cavity,
dim. of alveus: cf. F. alvéole. See Alveary.]

1. A cell in a honeycomb.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small cavity in a coral, shell, or fossil

3. (Anat.)

Defn: A small depression, sac, or vesicle, as the socket of a tooth,
the air cells of the lungs, the ultimate saccules of glands, etc.

ALVEUS
Al"ve*us, n.; pl. Alvei. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The channel of a river. Weate.

ALVINE
Al"vine, a. Etym: [L. alvus belly: cf. F. alvin.]

Defn: Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines;
as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions.

ALWAY
Al"way, adv.

Defn: Always. [Archaic or Poetic]
I would not live alway. Job vii. 16.

ALWAYS
Al"ways, adv. Etym: [All + way. The s is an adverbial (orig. a
genitive) ending.]

1. At all times; ever; perpetually; throughout all time; continually;
as, God is always the same.
Even in Heaven his [Mammon's] looks and thoughts. Milton.

2. Constancy during a certain period, or regularly at stated
intervals; invariably; uniformly; -- opposed to sometimes or
occasionally.
He always rides a black galloway. Bulwer.

ALYSSUM
A*lys"sum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of cruciferous plants; madwort. The sweet alyssum (A.
maritimum), cultivated for bouquets, bears small, white, sweet-
scented flowers.

AM
Am. Etym: [AS. am, eom, akin to Gothic im, Icel. em, Olr. am, Lith.
esmi, L. sum., Gr. ahmi, Skr. asmi, fr. a root as to be. Are, and cf.
Be, Was.]

Defn: The first person singular of the verb be, in the indicative
mode, present tense. See Be.
God said unto Moses, I am that am. Exod. iii. 14.

AMABILITY
Am`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. amabilitas.]

Defn: Lovableness. Jer. Taylor.

Note: The New English Dictionary (Murray) says this word is "usefully
distinct from Amiability."

AMACRATIC
Am`a*crat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Photog.)

Defn: Amasthenic. Sir J. Herschel.

AMADAVAT
Am`a*da*vat", n. Etym: [Indian name. From Ahmedabad, a city from
which it was imported to Europe.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The strawberry finch, a small Indian song bird (Estrelda
amandava), commonly caged and kept for fighting. The female is olive
brown; the male, in summer, mostly crimson; -- called also red
waxbill. [Written also amaduvad and avadavat.]

AMADOU
Am"a*dou, n. Etym: [F. amadou tinder, prop. lure, bait, fr. amadouer
to allure, caress, perh. fr. Icel. mata to feed, which is akin to E.
meat.]

Defn: A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletus
and Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk. It has
been employed as a styptic by surgeons, but its common use is as
tinder, for which purpose it is prepared by soaking it in a strong
solution of niter. Ure.

AMAIN
A*main", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + main. See 2d Main, n.]

1. With might; with full force; vigorously; violently; exceedingly.
They on the hill, which were not yet come to blows, perceiving the
fewness of their enemies, came down amain. Milton.
That striping giant, ill-bred and scoffing, shouts amain. T. Parker.

2. At full speed; in great haste; also, at once. "They fled amain."
Holinshed.

AMAIN
A*main", v. t. Etym: [F. amener. See Amenable.] (Naut.)

Defn: To lower, as a sail, a yard, etc.

AMAIN
A*main", v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: To lower the topsail, in token of surrender; to yield.

AMALGAM
A*mal"gam, n. Etym: [F. amalgame, prob. fr. L. malagma, Gr.

1. An alloy of mercury with another metal or metals; as, an amalgam
of tin, bismuth, etc.

Note: Medalists apply the term to soft alloys generally.

2. A mixture or compound of different things.

3. (Min.)

Defn: A native compound of mercury and silver.

AMALGAM
A*mal"gam, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. amalgamer]

Defn: To amalgamate. Boyle. B. Jonson.

AMALGAMA
A*mal"ga*ma, n.

Defn: Same as Amalgam.
They divided this their amalgama into a number of incoherent
republics. Burke.

AMALGAMATE
A*mal"ga*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amalgamated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Amalgamating.]

1. To compound or mix, as quicksilver, with another metal; to unite,
combine, or alloy with mercury.

2. To mix, so as to make a uniform compound; to unite or combine; as,
to amalgamate two races; to amalgamate one race with another.
Ingratitude is indeed their four cardinal virtues compacted and
amalgamated into one. Burke.

AMALGAMATE
A*mal"ga*mate, v. i.

1. To unite in an amalgam; to blend with another metal, as
quicksilver.

2. To coalesce, as a result of growth; to combine into a uniform
whole; to blend; as, two organs or parts amalgamate.

AMALGAMATE; AMALGAMATED
A*mal"ga*mate, A*mal"ga*ma`ted, a.

Defn: Coalesced; united; combined.

AMALGAMATION
A*mal`ga*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. amalgamation.]

1. The act or operation of compounding mercury with another metal; --
applied particularly to the process of separating gold and silver
from their ores by mixing them with mercury. Ure.

2. The mixing or blending of different elements, races, societies,
etc.; also, the result of such combination or blending; a homogeneous
union. Macaulay.

AMALGAMATIVE
A*mal"ga*ma*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by amalgamation.

AMALGAMATOR
A*mal"ga*ma`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, amalgamates. Specifically: A machine
for separating precious metals from earthy particles by bringing them
in contact with a body of mercury with which they form an amalgam.

AMALGAMIZE
A*mal"ga*mize, v. t.

Defn: To amalgamate. [R.]

AMANDINE
A*man"dine, n. Etym: [F. amande almond. See Almond.]

1. The vegetable casein of almonds.

2. A kind of cold cream prepared from almonds, for chapped hands,
etc.

AMANITA
Am`a*ni"ta, n. [NL. See Amanitine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of poisonous fungi of the family Agaricaceæ,
characterized by having a volva, an annulus, and white spores. The
species resemble edible mushrooms, and are frequently mistaken for
them. Amanita muscaria, syn. Agaricus muscarius, is the fly amanita,
or fly agaric; and A. phalloides is the death cup.

AMANITINE
A*man"i*tine, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The poisonous principle of some fungi.

AMANUENSIS
A*man`u*en"sis, n.; pl. Amanuenses. Etym: [L., fr. a, ab + manus
hand.]

Defn: A person whose employment is to write what another dictates, or
to copy what another has written.

AMARACUS
A*mar"a*cus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: A fragrant flower. Tennyson.

AMARANT
Am"a*rant, n.

Defn: Amaranth, 1. [Obs.] Milton.

AMARANTACEOUS
Am`a*ran*ta"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which
the amaranth is the type.

AMARANTH
Am"a*ranth, n. Etym: [L. amarantus, Gr. mortal; -- so called because
its flowers do not soon wither: cf. F. amarante. The spelling with th
seems to be due to confusion with Gr.

1. An imaginary flower supposed never to fade. [Poetic]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of ornamental annual plants (Amaranthus) of many
species, with green, purplish, or crimson flowers.

2. A color inclining to purple.

AMARANTHINE
Am`a*ran"thine, a.

1. Of or pertaining to amaranth. "Amaranthine bowers." Pope.

2. Unfading, as the poetic amaranth; undying.
They only amaranthine flower on earth Is virtue. Cowper.

3. Of a purplish color. Buchanan.

AMARANTHUS; AMARANTUS
Am`a*ran"thus, Am`a*ran"tus, n.

Defn: Same as Amaranth.

AMARINE
Am"a*rine, n. Etym: [L. amarus bitter.] (Chem.)

Defn: A characteristic crystalline substance, obtained from oil of
bitter almonds.

AMARITUDE
A*mar"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. amaritudo, fr. amarus bitter: cf. OF.
amaritude.]

Defn: Bitterness. [R.]

AMARYLLIDACEOUS; AMARYLLIDEOUS
Am`a*ryl`li*da"ceous, Am`a*ryl*lid"e*ous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants differing
from the lily family chiefly in having the ovary below the

AMARYLLIS
Am`a*ryl"lis, n. Etym: [L. Amaryllis, Gr.

1. A pastoral sweetheart.
To sport with Amaryllis in the shade. Milton.

2. (bot.)
(a) A family of plants much esteemed for their beauty, including the
narcissus, jonquil, daffodil, agave, and others.
(b) A genus of the same family, including the Belladonna lily.

AMASS
A*mass", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amassed; p. pr. & vb. n. Amassing.]
Etym: [F. ambusher, LL. amassare; L. ad + massa lump, mass. See
Mass.]

Defn: To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of;
to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass words
or phrases.
The life Homer has been written by amassing all the traditions and
hints the writers could meet with. Pope.

Syn.
 -- To accumulate; heap up; pile.

AMASS
A*mass", n. Etym: [OF. amasse, fr. ambusher.]

Defn: A mass; a heap. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

AMASSABLE
A*mass"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being amassed.

AMASSER
A*mass"er, n.

Defn: One who amasses.

AMASSETTE
A`mas`sette", n. Etym: [F. See Amass.]

Defn: An instrument of horn used for collecting painters' colors on
the stone in the process of grinding.

AMASSMENT
A*mass"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. amassement.]

Defn: An amassing; a heap collected; a large quantity or number
brought together; an accumulation.
An amassment of imaginary conceptions. Glanvill.

AMASTHENIC
Am`as*then"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Photog.)

Defn: Uniting the chemical rays of light into one focus, as a certain
kind of lens; amacratic.

AMATE
A*mate", v. t. Etym: [OF. amater, amatir.]

Defn: To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt. [Obs. or Archaic]
The Silures, to amate the new general, rumored the overthrow greater
than was true. Milton.

AMATE
A*mate", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + mate.]

Defn: To be a mate to; to match. [Obs.] Spenser.

AMATEUR
Am`a*teur", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. amator lover, fr. amare to love.]

Defn: A person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science as
to music or painting; esp. one who cultivates any study or art, from
taste or attachment, without pursuing it professionally.

AMATEURISH
Am`a*teur"ish, a.

Defn: In the style of an amateur; superficial or defective like the
work of an amateur.
 -- Am`a*teur"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Am`a*teur"ish*ness, n.

AMATEURISM
Am"a*teur*ism, n.

Defn: The practice, habit, or work of an amateur.

AMATEURSHIP
Am"a*teur`ship, n.

Defn: The quality or character of an amateur.

AMATIVE
Am"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. amatus, p. p. of amare to love.]

Defn: Full of love; amatory.

AMATIVENESS
Am"a*tive*ness, n. (Phren.)

Defn: The faculty supposed to influence sexual desire; propensity to
love. Combe.

AMATORIAL
Am`a*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [See Amatorious.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a lover or to love making; amatory; as,
amatorial verses.

AMATORIALLY
Am`a*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an amatorial manner.

AMATORIAN
Am`a*to"ri*an, a.

Defn: Amatory. [R.] Johnson.

AMATORIOUS
Am`a*to"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. amatorius, fr. amare to love.]

Defn: Amatory. [Obs.] "Amatorious poem." Milton.

AMATORY
Am"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, producing, or expressing, sexual love; as,
amatory potions.

AMAUROSIS
Am`au*ro"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A loss or decay of sight, from loss of power in the optic
nerve, without any perceptible external change in the eye; -- called
also gutta serena, the "drop serene" of Milton.

AMAUROTIC
Am`au*rot"ic, a.

Defn: Affected with amaurosis; having the characteristics of
amaurosis.

AMAZE
A*maze", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amazed; p. pr. & vb. n. Amazing.] Etym:
[Pref. a- + maze.]

1. To bewilder; to stupefy; to bring into a maze. [Obs.]
A labyrinth to amaze his foes. Shak.

2. To confound, as by fear, wonder, extreme surprise; to overwhelm
with wonder; to astound; to astonish greatly. "Amazing Europe with
her wit." Goldsmith.
And all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the son of
David Matt. xii. 23.

Syn.
 -- To astonish; astound; confound; bewilder; perplex; surprise.
 -- Amaze, Astonish. Amazement includes the notion of bewilderment of
difficulty accompanied by surprise. It expresses a state in which one
does not know what to do, or to say, or to think. Hence we are amazed
at what we can not in the least account for. Astonishment also
implies surprise. It expresses a state in which one is stunned by the
vastness or greatness of something, or struck with some degree of
horror, as when one is overpowered by the

AMAZE
A*maze", v. i.

Defn: To be astounded. [Archaic] B. Taylor.

AMAZE
A*maze", v. t.

Defn: Bewilderment, arising from fear, surprise, or wonder;
amazement. [Chiefly poetic]
The wild, bewildered Of one to stone converted by amaze. Byron.

AMAZEDLY
A*maz"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In amazement; with confusion or astonishment. Shak.

AMAZEDNESS
A*maz"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being amazed, or confounded with fear, surprise,
or wonder. Bp. Hall.

AMAZEFUL
A*maze"ful, a.

Defn: Full of amazement. [R.]

AMAZEMENT
A*maze"ment, n.

1. The condition of being amazed; bewilderment [Obs.]; overwhelming
wonder, as from surprise, sudden fear, horror, or admiration.
His words impression left Of much amazement. Milton.

2. Frenzy; madness. [Obs.] Webster (1661).

AMAZING
A*maz"ing, a.

Defn: Causing amazement; very wonderful; as, amazing grace.
 -- A*maz"ing*ly, adv.

AMAZON
Am"a*zon, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. One of a fabulous race of female warriors in Scythia; hence, a
female warrior.

2. A tall, strong, masculine woman; a virago.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name numerous species of South American parrots of the genus
Chrysotis Amazon ant (Zoöl.), a species of ant (Polyergus rufescens),
of Europe and America. They seize by conquest the larvæ and nymphs
other species and make slaves of them in their own nests.

AMAZONIAN
Am`a*zo"ni*an, a.

1. Pertaining to or resembling an Amazon; of masculine manners;
warlike. Shak.

2. Of or pertaining to the river Amazon in South America, or to its
valley.

AMAZONITE; AMAZON STONE
Am"a*zon*ite, Am"a*zon stone`, n. Etym: [Named from the river
Amazon.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of feldspar, having a verdigris-green color.

AMB-; AMBI-
Amb-, Am*bi-. Etym: [L. prefix ambi-, amb-, akin to Gr. abhi, AS.
embe, emb, OHG. umbi, umpi, G. um, and also L. ambo both. Cf. Amphi-,
Both, By.]

Defn: A prefix meaning about, around; -- used in words derived from
the Latin.

AMBAGES
Am*ba"ges, n. pl. Etym: [L. (usually in pl.); pref. ambi-, amb- +
agere to drive: cf. F. ambage.]

Defn: A circuit; a winding. Hence: Circuitous way or proceeding;
quibble; circumlocution; indirect mode of speech.
After many ambages, perspicuously define what this melancholy is.
Burton.

AMBAGINOUS
Am*bag"i*nous, a.

Defn: Ambagious. [R.]

AMBAGIOUS
Am*ba"gious, a. Etym: [L. ambagiosus.]

Defn: Circumlocutory; circuitous. [R.]

AMBAGITORY
Am*bag"i*to*ry, a.

Defn: Ambagious. [R.]

AMBARY; AMBARY HEMP
Am*ba"ry, n., or Ambary hemp. [Hind. ambara, ambari.]

Defn: A valuable East Indian fiber plant (Hibiscus cannabinus), or
its fiber, which is used throughout India for making ropes, cordage,
and a coarse canvas and sackcloth; --called also brown Indian hemp.

AMBASSADE; EMBASSADE
Am"bas*sade, Em"bas*sade, n. Etym: [F. ambassade. See Embassy.]

1. The mission of an ambassador. [Obs.] Carew.

2. An embassy. [Obs.] Strype.

AMBASSADOR; EMBASSADOR
Am*bas"sa*dor, Em*bas"sa*dor, n. Etym: [See Embassador.]

1. A minister of the highest rank sent a foreign court to represent
there his sovereign or country.

Note: Ambassador are either ordinary [or resident] or extraordinary,
that is, sent upon some special or unusual occasion or errand.
Abbott.

2. An official messenger and representative.

AMBASSADORIAL
Am*bas`sa*do"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an ambassador. H. Walpole.

AMBASSADORSHIP
Am*bas`sa*dor*ship, n.

Defn: The state, office, or functions of an ambassador.

AMBASSADRESS
Am*bas"sa*dress, n.

Defn: A female ambassador; also, the wife of an ambassador. Prescott.

AMBASSAGE
Am"bas*sage, n.

Defn: Same as Embassage. [Obs. or R.] Luke xiv. 32.

AMBASSY
Am"bas*sy, n.

Defn: See Embassy, the usual spelling. Helps.

AMBER
Am"ber, n. Etym: [OE. aumbre, F. ambre, Sp. ámbar, and with the Ar.
article, alámbar, fr. Ar. 'anbar ambergris.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as a
fossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore in
many places. It takes a fine polish, and is used for pipe
mouthpieces, beads, etc., and as a basis for a fine varnish. By
friction, it becomes strongly electric.

2. Amber color, or anything amber-colored; a clear light yellow; as,
the amber of the sky.

3. Ambergris. [Obs.]
You that smell of amber at my charge. Beau. & Fl.

4. The balsam, liquidambar. Black amber, and old and popular name for
jet.

AMBER
Am"ber, a.

1. Consisting of amber; made of amber. "Amber bracelets." Shak.

2. Resembling amber, especially in color; amber-colored. "The amber
morn." Tennyson.

AMBER
Am"ber, v. t. [p. p. & p. a. Ambered .]

1. To scent or flavor with ambergris; as, ambered wine.

2. To preserve in amber; as, an ambered fly.

AMBER FISH
Am"ber fish. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the southern Atlantic coast (Seriola Carolinensis.)

AMBERGREASE
Am"ber*grease, n.

Defn: See Ambergris.

AMBERGRIS
Am"ber*gris, n. Etym: [F. ambre gris, i. e., gray amber; F. gris
gray, which is of German origin: cf. OS. grîs, G. greis, gray-haired.
See Amber.]

Defn: A substance of the consistence of wax, found floating in the
Indian Ocean and other parts of the tropics, and also as a morbid
secretion in the intestines of the sperm whale (Physeter
macrocephalus), which is believed to be in all cases its true origin.
In color it is white, ash-gray, yellow, or black, and often
variegated like marble. The floating masses are sometimes from sixty
to two hundred and twenty-five pounds in weight. It is wholly
volatilized as a white vapor at 212º Fahrenheit, and is highly valued
in perfumery. Dana.

AMBER ROOM
Am"ber room

Defn: A room formerly in the Czar's Summer Palace in Russia, which
was richly decorated with walls and fixtures made from amber.  The
amber was removed by occupying German troops during the Second World
War and has, as of 1997, never been recovered.  The room is being
recreated from old photographs by Russian artisans. PJC

AMBER SEED
Am"ber seed`.

Defn: Seed of the Hibiscus abelmoschus, somewhat resembling millet,
brought from Egypt and the West Indies, and having a flavor like that
of musk; musk seed. Chambers.

AMBER TREE
Am"ber tree`.

Defn: A species of Anthospermum, a shrub with evergreen leaves,
which, when bruised, emit a fragrant odor.

AMBES-AS
Ambes"-as, n.

Defn: Ambs-ace. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AMBIDEXTER
Am"bi*dex"ter, a. Etym: [LL., fr. L. ambo both + dexter right, dextra
(sc. manus) the right hand.]

Defn: Using both hands with equal ease. Smollett.

AMBIDEXTER
Am`bi*dex"ter, n.

1. A person who uses both hands with equal facility.

2. Hence; A double-dealer; one equally ready to act on either side in
party disputes.
The rest are hypocrites, ambidexters, so many turning pictures -- a
lion on one side, a lamb on the other. Burton.

3. (Law)

Defn: A juror who takes money from both parties for giving his
verdict. Cowell.

AMBIDEXTERITY
Am"bi*dex*ter"i*ty, n.

1. The quality of being ambidexas, ambidexterity of argumentation.
Sterne.
Ignorant I was of the human frame, and of its latent powers, as
regarded speed, force, and ambidexterity. De Quincey.

2. Double-dealing. (Law)

Defn: A juror's taking of money from the both parties for a verdict.

AMBIDEXTRAL
Am`bi*dex"tral, a.

Defn: Pertaining equally to the right-hand side and the left-hand
side. Earle.

AMBIDEXTROUS
Am`bi*dex"trous, a.

1. Pertaining the faculty of using both hands with equal ease. Sir T.
Browne.

2. Practicing or siding with both parties.
All false, shuffling, and ambidextrous dealings. L'Estrange.

AMBIDEXTROUSLY
Am"bi*dex"trous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ambidextrous manner; cunningly.

AMBIDEXTROUSNESS
Am`bi*dex"trous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being ambidextrous; ambidexterity.

AMBIENT
Am"bi*ent, a. Etym: [L. ambiens, p. pr. of ambire to go around; amb-
+ ire to go.]

Defn: Encompassing on all sides; circumfused; investing. "Ambient
air." Milton. "Ambient clouds." Pope.

AMBIENT
Am"bi*ent, n.

Defn: Something that surrounds or invests; as, air . . . being a
perpetual ambient. Sir H. Wotton.

AMBIGENOUS
Am*big"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. ambo both + genus kind.]

Defn: Of two kinds. (Bot.)

Defn: Partaking of two natures, as the perianth of some endogenous
plants, where the outer surface is calycine, and the inner petaloid.

AMBIGU
Am"bi*gu, n. Etym: [F., fr. ambigu doubtful, L. ambiquus. See
Ambiguous.]

Defn: An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at the
same time.

AMBIGUITY
Am`bi*gu"i*ty, n.; pl. Ambiguities. Etym: [L. ambiguitas, fr.
ambiguus: cf. F. ambiguité.]

Defn: The quality or state of being ambiguous; doubtfulness or
uncertainty, particularly as to the signification of language,
arising from its admitting of more than one meaning; an equivocal
word or expression.
No shadow of ambiguity can rest upon the course to be pursued. I.
Taylor.
The words are of single signification, without any ambiguity. South.

AMBIGUOUS
Am*big"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. ambiguus, fr. ambigere to wander about,
waver; amb- + agere to drive.]

Defn: Doubtful or uncertain, particularly in respect to
signification; capable of being understood in either of two or more
possible senses; equivocal; as, an ambiguous course; an ambiguous
expression.
What have been thy answers What but dark, Ambiguous, and with double
sense deluding Milton.

Syn.
 -- Doubtful; dubious; uncertain; unsettled; indistinct;
indeterminate; indefinite. See Equivocal.

AMBIGUOUSLY
Am*big"u*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ambiguous manner; with doubtful meaning.

AMBIGUOUSNESS
Am*big"u*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Ambiguity.

AMBILEVOUS
Am`bi*le"vous, a. Etym: [L. ambo both + laevus left.]

Defn: Left-handed on both sides; clumsy; -- opposed to ambidexter.
[R.] Sir T. Browne.

AMBILOQUY
Am*bil"o*quy, n.

Defn: Doubtful or ambiguous language. [Obs.] Bailey.

AMBIPAROUS
Am*bip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. ambo both + parere to bring forth.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Characterized by containing the rudiments of both flowers and
leaves; -- applied to a bud.

AMBIT
Am"bit, n. Etym: [L. ambitus circuit, fr. ambire to go around. See
Ambient.]

Defn: Circuit or compass.
His great parts did not live within a small ambit. Milward.

AMBITION
Am*bi"tion, n. Etym: [F. ambition, L. ambitio a going around,
especially of candidates for office is Rome, to solicit votes (hence,
desire for office or honorambire to go around. See Ambient, Issue.]

1. The act of going about to solicit or obtain an office, or any
other object of desire; canvassing. [Obs.]
[I] used no ambition to commend my deeds. Milton.

2. An eager, and sometimes an inordinate, desire for preferment,
honor, superiority, power, or the attainment of something.
Cromwell, I charge thee, fling a way ambition: By that sin fell the
angels. Shak.
The pitiful ambition of possessing five or six thousand more acres.
Burke.

AMBITION
Am*bi"tion, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. ambitionner.]

Defn: To seek after ambitiously or eagerly; to covet. [R.]
Pausanias, ambitioning the sovereignty of Greece, bargains with
Xerxes for his daughter in marriage. Trumbull.

AMBITIONIST
Am*bi"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One excessively ambitious. [R.]

AMBITIONLESS
Am*bi"tion*less, a.

Defn: Devoid of ambition. Pollok.

AMBITIOUS
Am*bi"tious, a. Etym: [L. ambitiosus: cf. F. ambitieux. See
Ambition.]

1. Possessing, or controlled by, ambition; greatly or inordinately
desirous of power, honor, office, superiority, or distinction.
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, And Brutus is an honorable man.
Shak.

2. Strongly desirous; -- followed by of or the infinitive; as,
ambitious to be or to do something.
I was not ambitious of seeing this ceremony. Evelyn.
Studious of song, and yet ambitious not to sing in vain. Cowper.

3. Springing from, characterized by, or indicating, ambition; showy;
aspiring; as, an ambitious style.
A giant statue . . . Pushed by a wild and artless race, From off
wide, ambitious base. Collins.

AMBITIOUSLY
Am*bi"tious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ambitious manner.

AMBITIOUSNESS
Am*bi"tious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being ambitious; ambition; pretentiousness.

AMBITUS
Am"bi*tus, n. Etym: [L. See Ambit, Ambition.]

1. The exterior edge or border of a thing, as the border of a leaf,
or the outline of a bivalve shell.

2. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A canvassing for votes.

AMBLE
Am"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ambled; p. pr. & vb. n. Ambling.] Etym:
[F. ambler to amble, fr. L. ambulare to walk, in LL., to amble, perh.
fr. amb-, ambi-, and a root meaning to go: cf. Gr. base. Cf.
Ambulate.]

1. To go at the easy gait called an amble; -- applied to the horse or
to its rider.

2. To move somewhat like an ambling horse; to go easily or without
hard shocks.
The skipping king, he ambled up and down. Shak.
Sir, your wit ambles well; it goes easily. Shak.

AMBLE
Am"ble, n.

1. A peculiar gait of a horse, in which both legs on the same side
are moved at the same time, alternating with the legs on the other
side. "A fine easy amble." B. Jonson.

2. A movement like the amble of a horse.

AMBLER
Am"bler, n.

Defn: A horse or a person that ambles.

AMBLINGLY
Am"bling*ly, adv.

Defn: With an ambling gait.

AMBLOTIC
Am*blot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Tending to cause abortion.

AMBLYGON
Am"bly*gon, n. Etym: [Gr. amblygone.] (Geom.)

Defn: An obtuse-angled figure, esp. and obtuse-angled triangle.
[Obs.]

AMBLYGONAL
Am*blyg"o*nal, a.

Defn: Obtuse-angled. [Obs.] Hutton.

AMBLYOPIA; AMBLYOPY
Am`bly*o"pi*a, Am"bly*o`py, n. Etym: [Gr. amblyopie.] (Med.)

Defn: Weakness of sight, without and opacity of the cornea, or of the
interior of the eye; the first degree of amaurosis.

AMBLYOPIC
Am"bly*op"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to amblyopy. Quain.

AMBLYPODA
Am*blyp"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A group of large, extinct, herbivorous mammals, common in the
Tertiary formation of the United States.

AMBO
Am"bo, n.; pl. Ambos. Etym: [LL. ambo, Gr. ambon.]

Defn: A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christian
churches. Gwilt.

AMBON
Am"bon, n.

Defn: Same as Ambo.

AMBOYNA BUTTON
Am*boy"na but"ton. (Med.)

Defn: A chronic contagious affection of the skin, prevalent in the
tropics.

AMBOYNA PINE
Amboyna pine. (Bot.)

Defn: The resiniferous tree Agathis Dammara, of the Moluccas.

AMBOYNA WOOD
Am*boy"na wood.

Defn: A beautiful mottled and curled wood, used in cabinetwork. It is
obtained from the Pterocarpus Indicus of Amboyna, Borneo, etc.

AMBREATE
Am"bre*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the combination of ambreic acid with a base or
positive radical.

AMBREIC
Am*bre"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to ambrein; -- said of a certain acid produced
by digesting ambrein in nitric acid.

AMBREIN
Am"bre*in, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ambréine. See Amber.] (Chem.)

Defn: A fragrant substance which is the chief constituent of
ambergris.

AMBRITE
Am"brite, n. Etym: [From amber.]

Defn: A fossil resin occurring in large masses in New Zealand.

AMBROSE
Am"brose, n.

Defn: A sweet-scented herb; ambrosia. See Ambrosia, 3. Turner.

AMBROSIA
Am*bro"sia, n. Etym: [L. ambrosia, Gr. mrita, L. mortuus, dead, and
to E. mortal.]

1. (Myth.)
(a) The fabled food of the gods (as nectar was their drink), which
conferred immortality upon those who partook of it.
(b) An unguent of the gods.
His dewy locks distilled ambrosia. Milton.

2. A perfumed unguent, salve, or draught; something very pleasing to
the taste or smell. Spenser.

3. Formerly, a kind of fragrant plant; now (Bot.), a genus of plants,
including some coarse and worthless weeds, called ragweed, hogweed,
etc.

AMBROSIA BEETLE
Ambrosia beetle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bark beetle that feeds on ambrosia.

AMBROSIAC
Am"bro"si*ac, a. Etym: [L. ambrosiacus: cf. F. ambrosiaque.]

Defn: Having the qualities of ambrosia; delicious. [R.]"Ambrosiac
odors." B. Jonson.

AMBROSIAL
Am*bro"sial, a. Etym: [L. ambrosius, Gr.

1. Consisting of, or partaking of the nature of, ambrosia; delighting
the taste or smell; delicious. "Ambrosial food." "Ambrosial
fragrance." Milton.

2. Divinely excellent or beautiful. "Shakes his ambrosial curls."
Pope.

AMBROSIALLY
Am*bro"sial*ly, adv.

Defn: After the manner of ambrosia; delightfully. "Smelt
ambrosially." Tennyson.

AMBROSIAN
Am*bro"sian, a.

Defn: Ambrosial. [R.] . Jonson.

AMBROSIAN
Am*bro"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to St. Ambrose; as, the Ambrosian office, or
ritual, a formula of worship in the church of Milan, instituted by
St. Ambrose. Ambrosian chant, the mode of signing or chanting
introduced by St. Ambrose in the 4th century.

AMBROSIN
Am"bro*sin, n. Etym: [LL. Ambrosinus nummus.]

Defn: An early coin struck by the dukes of Milan, and bearing the
figure of St. Ambrose on horseback.

AMBROTYPE
Am"bro*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.] (Photog.)

Defn: A picture taken on a place of prepared glass, in which the
lights are represented in silver, and the shades are produced by a
dark background visible through the unsilvered portions of the glass.

AMBRY
Am"bry, n.; pl. Ambries. Etym: [OE. aumbry, almery, OF. almarie,
armarie, aumaire, F. armoire, LL. armarium chest, cupboard, orig. a
repository for arms, fr. L. arama arms. The word has been confused
with almonry. See Armory.]

1. In churches, a kind of closet, niche, cupboard, or locker for
utensils, vestments, etc.

2. A store closet, as a pantry, cupboard, etc.

3. Almonry. [Improperly so used]

AMBS-ACE
Ambs"-ace, n. Etym: [OF. ambesas; ambes both (fr. L. ambo) + as ace.
See Ace.]

Defn: Double aces, the lowest throw of all at dice. Hence: Bad luck;
anything of no account or value.

AMBULACRAL
Am`bu*la"cral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to ambulacra; avenuelike; as, the ambulacral
ossicles, plates, spines, and suckers of echinoderms.

AMBULACRIFORM
Am`bu*la"cri*form, a. Etym: [Ambulacrum + -form] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form of ambulacra.

AMBULACRUM
Am`bu*la"crum, n.; pl. Ambulacra. Etym: [L., an alley or covered
way.] (Zoöl.)
(a) One of the radical zones of echinoderms, along which run the
principal nerves, blood vessels, and water tubes. These zones usually
bear rows of locomotive suckers or tentacles, which protrude from
regular pores. In star fishes they occupy the grooves along the under
side of the rays.
(b) One of the suckers on the feet of mites.

AMBULANCE
Am"bu*lance, n. Etym: [F. ambulance, hôpital ambulant, fr. L.
ambulare to walk. See Amble.] (Mil.)
(a) A field hospital, so organized as to follow an army in its
movements, and intended to succor the wounded as soon as possible.
Often used adjectively; as, an ambulance wagon; ambulance stretcher;
ambulance corps.
(b) An ambulance wagon or cart for conveying the wounded from the
field, or to a hospital.

AMBULANT
Am"bu*lant, a. Etym: [L. ambulans, p. pr. of ambulare to walk: cf. F.
ambulant.]

Defn: Walking; moving from place to place. Gayton.

AMBULATE
Am"bu*late, v. i. Etym: [L. ambulare to walk. See Amble.]

Defn: To walk; to move about. [R.] Southey.

AMBULATION
Am`bu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ambulatio.]

Defn: The act of walking. Sir T. Browne.

AMBULATIVE
Am"bu*la*tive, a.

Defn: Walking. [R.]

AMBULATOR
Am"bu*la`tor, n.

1. One who walks about; a walker.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A beetle of the genus Lamia.
(b) A genus of birds, or one of this genus.

3. An instrument for measuring distances; -- called also
perambulator. Knight.

AMBULATORIAL
Am`bu*la*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Ambulatory; fitted for walking. Verrill.

AMBULATORY
Am"bu*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. ambulatorius.]

1. Of or pertaining to walking; having the faculty of walking; formed
or fitted for walking; as, an ambulatory animal.

2. Accustomed to move from place to place; not stationary; movable;
as, an ambulatory court, which exercises its jurisdiction in
different places.
The priesthood . . . before was very ambulatory, and dispersed into
all families. Jer. Taylor.

3. Pertaining to a walk. [R.]
The princess of whom his majesty had an ambulatory view in his
travels. Sir H. Wotton.

4. (Law)

Defn: Not yet fixed legally, or settled past alteration; alterable;
as, the dispositions of a will are ambulatory until the death of the
testator.

AMBULATORY
Am"bu*la*to*ry, n.; pl. Ambulatories. Etym: [Cf. LL. ambulatorium.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A place to walk in, whether in the open air, as the gallery of
a cloister, or within a building.

AMBURRY
Am"bur*ry, n.

Defn: Same as Anbury.

AMBUSCADE
Am`bus*cade", n. Etym: [F. embuscade, fr. It. imboscata, or Sp.
emboscada, fr. emboscar to ambush, fr. LL. imboscare. See Ambush, v.
t.]

1. A lying in a wood, concealed, for the purpose of attacking an
enemy by surprise. Hence: A lying in wait, and concealed in any
situation, for a like purpose; a snare laid for an enemy; an ambush.

2. A place in which troops lie hid, to attack an enemy unexpectedly.
[R.] Dryden.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: The body of troops lying in ambush.

AMBUSCADE
Am`bus*cade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ambuscaded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ambuscading.]

1. To post or conceal in ambush; to ambush.

2. To lie in wait for, or to attack from a covert or lurking place;
to waylay.

AMBUSCADE
Am`bus*cade", v. i.

Defn: To lie in ambush.

AMBUSCADO
Am`bus*ca"do, n.

Defn: Ambuscade. [Obs.] Shak.

AMBUSCADOED
Am`bus*ca"doed, p. p.

Defn: Posted in ambush; ambuscaded. [Obs.]

AMBUSH
Am"bush, n. Etym: [F. embûche, fr. the verb. See Ambush, v. t.]

1. A disposition or arrangement of troops for attacking an enemy
unexpectedly from a concealed station. Hence: Unseen peril; a device
to entrap; a snare.
Heaven, whose high walls fear no assault or siege Or ambush from the
deep. Milton.

2. A concealed station, where troops or enemies lie in wait to attack
by surprise.
Bold in close ambush, base in open field. Dryden.

3. The troops posted in a concealed place, for attacking by surprise;
liers in wait. [Obs.]
The ambush arose quickly out of their place. Josh. viii. 19.
To lay an ambush, to post a force in ambush.

AMBUSH
Am"bush, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ambushed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ambushing.]
Etym: [OE. enbussen, enbushen, OF. embushier, embuissier, F.
embûcher, embusquer, fr. LL. imboscare; in + LL. boscus, buscus, a
wood; akin to G. bush, E. bush. See Ambuscade, Bu.]

1. To station in ambush with a view to surprise an enemy.
By ambushed men behind their temple Dryden.

2. To attack by ambush; to waylay.

AMBUSH
Am"bush, v. i.

Defn: To lie in wait, for the purpose of attacking by surprise; to
lurk.
Nor saw the snake that ambushed for his prey. Trumbull.

AMBUSHER
Am"bush*er, n.

Defn: One lying in ambush.

AMBUSHMENT
Am"bush*ment, n. Etym: [OF. embuschement. See Ambush, v. t.]

Defn: An ambush. [Obs.] 2 Chron. xiii. 13.

AMBUSTION
Am*bus"tion, n. Etym: [L. ambustio.] (Med.)

Defn: A burn or scald. Blount.

AMEBEAN
Am`e*be"an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Am.

AMEER; AMIR
A*meer", A*mir", n. Etym: [See Emir.]

1. Emir. [Obs.]

2. One of the Mohammedan nobility of Afghanistan and Scinde.

AMEL
Am"el, n. Etym: [OE. amell, OF. esmail, F. émail, of German origin;
cf. OHG. smelzi, G. schmelz. See Smelt, v. t.]

Defn: Enamel. [Obs.] Boyle.

AMEL
Am"el, v. t. Etym: [OE. amellen, OF. esmailler, F. émailler, OF.
esmail, F. émail.]

Defn: To enamel. [Obs.]
Enlightened all with stars, And richly ameled. Chapman.

AMELCORN
Am"el*corn`, n. Etym: [Ger. amelkorn: cf. MHG. amel, amer, spelt, and
L. amylum starch, Gr.

Defn: A variety of wheat from which starch is produced; -- called
also French rice.

AMELIORABLE
A*mel"io*ra*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being ameliorated.

AMELIORATE
A*mel"io*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ameliorated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ameliorating.] Etym: [L. ad + meliorare to make better: cf. F.
améliorer. See Meliorate.]

Defn: To make better; to improve; to meliorate.
In every human being there is a wish to ameliorate his own condition.
Macaulay.

AMELIORATE
A*mel"io*rate, v. i.

Defn: To grow better; to meliorate; as, wine ameliorates by age.

AMELIORATION
A*mel`io*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. amélioration.]

Defn: The act of ameliorating, or the state of being ameliorated;
making or becoming better; improvement; melioration. "Amelioration of
human affairs." J. S. Mill.

AMELIORATIVE
A*mel"io*ra*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to ameliorate; producing amelioration or improvement;
as, ameliorative remedies, efforts.

AMELIORATOR
A*mel"io*ra`tor, n.

Defn: One who ameliorates.

AMEN
A`men", interj., adv., & n. Etym: [L. amen, Gr. am certainly, truly.]

Defn: An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So be
it. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief.
When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily.
It is used as a noun, to demote: (a) concurrence in belief, or in a
statement; assent; (b) the final word or act; (c) Christ as being one
who is true and faithful.
And let all the people say, Amen. Ps. cvi. 48.
Amen, amen, I say to thee, except a man be born again, he can not see
the kingdom of God. John ii. 3. Rhemish Trans.
To say amen to, to approve warmly; to concur in heartily or
emphatically; to ratify; as, I say Amen to all.

AMEN
A`men", v. t.

Defn: To say Amen to; to sanction fully.

AMENABILITY
A*me`na*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being amenable; amenableness. Coleridge.

AMENABLE
A*me"na*ble, a. Etym: [F. amener to lead; ad) = mener to lead, fr. L.
minare to drive animals (properly by threatening cries), in LL. to
lead; L. minari, to threaten, minae threats. See Menace.]

1. (Old Law)

Defn: Easy to be led; governable, as a woman by her husband. [Obs.]
Jacob.

2. Liable to be brought to account or punishment; answerable;
responsible; accountable; as, amenable to law.
Nor is man too diminutive . . . to be amenable to the divine
government. I. Taylor.

3. Liable to punishment, a charge, a claim, etc.

4. Willing to yield or submit; responsive; tractable.
Sterling . . . always was amenable enough to counsel. Carlyle.

AMENABLENESS
A*me"na*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being amenable; liability to answer
charges; answerableness.

AMENABLY
A*me"na*bly, adv.

Defn: In an amenable manner.

AMENAGE
Am"e*nage, v. t. Etym: [OF. amesnagier. See Manage.]

Defn: To manage. [Obs.] Spenser.

AMENANCE
Am"e*nance, n. Etym: [OF. See Amenable.]

Defn: Behavior; bearing. [Obs.] Spenser.

AMEND
A*mend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amended; p. pr. & vb. n. Amending.]
Etym: [F. amender, L. emendare; e(ex) + mendum, menda, fault, akin to
Skr. minda personal defect. Cf. Emend, Mend.]

Defn: To change or modify in any way for the better; as,
(a) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous,
faulty, and the like;
(b) by supplying deficiencies;
(c) by substituting something else in the place of what is removed;
to rectify.
Mar not the thing that can not be amended. Shak.
An instant emergency, granting no possibility for revision, or
opening for amended thought. De Quincey.
We shall cheer her sorrows, and amend her blood, by wedding her to a
Norman. Sir W. Scott.
To amend a bill, to make some change in the details or provisions of
a bill or measure while on its passage, professedly for its
improvement.

Syn.
 -- To Amend, Emend, Correct, Reform, Rectify. These words agree in
the idea of bringing things into a more perfect state. We correct
(literally, make straight) when we conform things to some standard or
rule; as, to correct proof sheets. We amend by removing blemishes,
faults, or errors, and thus rendering a thing more a nearly perfect;
as, to amend our ways, to amend a text, the draft of a bill, etc.
Emend is only another form of amend, and is applied chiefly to
editions of books, etc. To reform is literally to form over again, or
put into a new and better form; as, to reform one's life. To rectify
is to make right; as, to rectify a mistake, to rectify abuses,
inadvertencies, etc.

AMEND
A*mend", v. i.

Defn: To grow better by rectifying something wrong in manners or
morals; to improve. "My fortune . . . amends." Sir P. Sidney.

AMENDABLE
A*mend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being amended; as, an amendable writ or error.
 -- A*mend"a*ble*ness, n.

AMENDATORY
A*mend"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Supplying amendment; corrective; emendatory. Bancroft.

AMENDE
A`mende", n. Etym: [F. See Amend.]

Defn: A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation.
Amende honorable(#). (Old French Law) A species of infamous
punishment in which the offender, being led into court with a rope
about his neck, and a lighted torch in his hand, begged pardon of his
God, the court, etc. In popular language, the phrase now denotes a
public apology or recantation, and reparation to an injured party,
for improper language or treatment.

AMENDER
A*mend"er, n.

Defn: One who amends.

AMENDFUL
A*mend"ful, a.

Defn: Much improving. [Obs.]

AMENDMENT
A*mend"ment, n. Etym: [F. amendement, LL. amendamentum.]

1. An alteration or change for the better; correction of a fault or
of faults; reformation of life by quitting vices.

2. In public bodies; Any alternation made or proposed to be made in a
bill or motion by adding, changing, substituting, or omitting.

3. (Law)

Defn: Correction of an error in a writ or process.

Syn.
 -- Improvement; reformation; emendation.

AMENDS
A*mends", n. sing. & pl. Etym: [F. amendes, pl. of amende. Cf.
Amende.]

Defn: Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation. [Now
const. with sing. verb.] "An honorable amends." Addison.
Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends. Shak.

AMENITY
A*men"i*ty, n.; pl. Amenities. Etym: [F. aménité, L. amoenitas, fr.
amoenus pleasant.]

Defn: The quality of being pleasant or agreeable, whether in respect
to situation, climate, manners, or disposition; pleasantness;
civility; suavity; gentleness.
A sweetness and amenity of temper. Buckle.
This climate has not seduced by its amenities. W. Howitt.

AMENORRHOEA
A*men`or*rhoe"a, n. Etym: [Gr. aménorrhée.] (Med.)

Defn: Retention or suppression of the menstrual discharge.

AMENORRHOEAL
A*men`or*rhoe"al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to amenorrhoea.

A MENSA ET THORO
A men"sa et tho"ro. Etym: [L., from board and bed.] (Law)

Defn: A kind of divorce which does not dissolve the marriage bond,
but merely authorizes a separate life of the husband and wife.
Abbott.

AMENT
Am"ent, n. Etym: [L. amentum thong or strap.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of inflorescence; a catkin.
The globular ament of a buttonwood. Coues.

AMENTACEOUS
Am`en*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [LL. amentaceus.] (Bot.)
(a) Resembling, or consisting of, an ament or aments; as, the
chestnut has an amentaceous inflorescence.
(b) Bearing aments; having flowers arranged in aments; as,
amentaceous plants.

AMENTIA
A*men"ti*a, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: Imbecility; total want of understanding.

AMENTIFEROUS
Am`en*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. amentum + -ferous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing catkins. Balfour.

AMENTIFORM
A*men"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. amentum + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a catkin.

AMENTUM
A*men"tum, n.; pl. Amenta.

Defn: Same as Ament.

AMENUSE
Am"e*nuse, v. t. Etym: [OF. amenuisier. See Minute.]

Defn: To lessen. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AMERCE
A*merce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amerced; p. pr. & vb. n. Amercing.]
Etym: [OF. amercier, fr. a merci at the mercy of, liable to a
punishment. See Mercy.]

1. To punish by a pecuniary penalty, the amount of which is not fixed
by law, but left to the discretion of the court; as, the amerced the
criminal in the sum on the hundred dollars.

Note: The penalty of fine may be expressed without a preposition, or
it may be introduced by in, with, or of.

2. To punish, in general; to mulct.
Millions of spirits for his fault amerced Of Heaven. Milton.
Shall by him be amerced with penance due. Spenser.

AMERCEABLE
A*merce"a*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to be amerced.

AMERCEMENT
A*merce"ment, n. Etym: [OF. amerciment.]

Defn: The infliction of a penalty at the discretion of the court;
also, a mulct or penalty thus imposed. It differs from a fine,in that
the latter is, or was originally, a fixed and certain sum prescribed
by statue for an offense; but an amercement is arbitrary. Hence, the
act or practice of affeering. [See Affeer.] Blackstone.

Note: This word, in old books, is written amerciament. Amercement
royal, a penalty imposed on an officer for a misdemeanor in his
office. Jacobs.

AMERCER
A*mer"cer, n.

Defn: One who amerces.

AMERCIAMENT
A*mer"cia*ment, n. Etym: [LL. amerciamentum.]

Defn: Same as Amercement. Mozley & W.

AMERICAN
A*mer"i*can, a. Etym: [Named from Americus Vespucius.]

1. Of or pertaining to America; as, the American continent: American
Indians.

2. Of or pertaining to the United States. "A young officer of the
American navy." Lyell. American ivy. See Virginia creeper.
 -- American Party (U. S. Politics), a party, about 1854, which
opposed the influence of foreign-born citizens, and those supposed to
owe allegiance to a foreign power.
 -- Native american Party (U. S. Politics), a party of principles
similar to those of the American party. It arose about 1843, but soon
died out.

AMERICAN
A*mer"i*can, n.

Defn: A native of America; -- originally applied to the aboriginal
inhabitants, but now applied to the descendants of Europeans born in
America, and especially to the citizens of the United States.
The name American must always exalt the pride of patriotism.
Washington.

AMERICANISM
A*mer"i*can*ism, n.

1. Attachment to the United States.

2. A custom peculiar to the United States or to America; an American
characteristic or idea.

3. A word or phrase peculiar to the United States.

AMERICANIZATION
A*mer`i*can*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process of Americanizing.

AMERICANIZE
A*mer"i*can*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Americanizer; p. pr. & vb. n.
Americanizing.]

Defn: To render American; to assimilate to the Americans in customs,
ideas, etc.; to stamp with American characteristics.

AMERICAN PLAN
A*mer"i*can plan.

Defn: In hotels, aplan upon which guests pay for both room and board
by the day, week, or other convenient period; -- contrasted with
European plan.

AMERICAN PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION
A*mer"i*can Pro*tect"ive As*so`ci*a"tion.

Defn: A secret organization in the United States, formed in Iowa in
1887, ostensibly for the protection of American institutions by
keeping Roman Catholics out of public office. Abbrev. commonly to A.
P .A.

AMES-ACE
Ames"-ace, n.

Defn: Same as Ambs-ace.

AMESS
Am"ess, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice.

AMETABOLA
Am`e*tab"o*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of insects which do not undergo any metamorphosis.
[Written also Ametabolia.]

AMETABOLIAN
A*met`a*bo"li*an, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to insects that do undergo any metamorphosis.

AMETABOLIC; AMETABOLOUS
A*met`a*bol"ic, Am`e*tab"o*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Not undergoing any metamorphosis; as, ametabolic insects.

AMETHODIST
A*meth"o*dist, n. Etym: [Pref. a- not + methodist.]

Defn: One without method; a quack. [Obs.]

AMETHYST
Am"e*thyst, Etym: [F. ametiste, amatiste, F. améthyste, L.
amethystus, fr. Gr. Mead.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of crystallized quartz, of a purple or bluish violet
color, of different shades. It is much used as a jeweler's stone.
Oriental amethyst, the violet-blue variety of transparent
crystallized corundum or sapphire.

2. (Her.)

Defn: A purple color in a nobleman's escutcheon, or coat of arms.

AMETHYSTINE
Am`e*thys"tine, a. Etym: [L. amethystinus, Gr.

1. Resembling amethyst, especially in color; bluish violet.

2. Composed of, or containing, amethyst.

AMETROPIA
Am`e*tro"pi*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Any abnormal condition of the refracting powers of the eye.
 -- Am`e*trop"ic, a.

AMHARIC
Am*har"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Amhara, a division of Abyssinia; as, the
Amharic language is closely allied to the Ethiopic.
 -- n.

Defn: The Amharic language (now the chief language of Abyssinia).

AMIA
Am"i*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined to
North America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie,
and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin.

AMIABILITY
A`mi*a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being amiable; amiableness; sweetness of
disposition.
Every excellency is a degree of amiability. Jer. Taylor.

AMIABLE
A"mi*a*ble, a. Etym: [F. amiable, L. amicabilis friendly, fr. amicus
friend, fr. amare to love. The meaning has been influenced by F.
aimable, L. amabilis lovable, fr. amare to love. Cf. Amicable,
Amorous, Amability.]

1. Lovable; lovely; pleasing. [Obs. or R.]
So amiable a prospect. Sir T. Herbert.

2. Friendly; kindly; sweet; gracious; as, an amiable temper or mood;
amiable ideas.

3. Possessing sweetness of disposition; having sweetness of temper,
kind-heartedness, etc., which causes one to be liked; as, an amiable
woman.

4. Done out of love. [Obs.]
Lay an amiable siege to the honesty of this Ford's wife. Shak.

AMIABLENESS
A`mi*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being amiable; amiability.

AMIABLY
A"mi*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an amiable manner.

AMIANTH
Am"i*anth, n.

Defn: See Amianthus. [Poetic]

AMIANTHIFORM
Am`i*an"thi*form, a. Etym: [Amianthus + -form.]

Defn: Resembling amianthus in form.

AMIANTHOID
Am`i*an"thoid, a. Etym: [Amianthus + -oid: cf. F. amiantoïde.]

Defn: Resembling amianthus.

AMIANTHUS
Am`i*an"thus, n. Etym: [L. amiantus, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Earth flax, or mountain flax; a soft silky variety of asbestus.

AMIC
Am"ic, a. Etym: [L. ammonia + -ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix;
as, amic acid; phosphamic acid. Amic acid (Chem.), one of a class of
nitrogenized acids somewhat resembling amides.

AMICABILITY
Am`i*ca*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being amicable; friendliness; amicableness. Ash.

AMICABLE
Am"i*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. amicabilis, fr. amicus friend, fr. amare to
love. See Amiable.]

Defn: Friendly; proceeding from, or exhibiting, friendliness; after
the manner of friends; peaceable; as, an amicable disposition, or
arrangement.
That which was most remarkable in this contest was . . . the amicable
manner in which it was managed. Prideoux.
Amicable action (Law.), an action commenced and prosecuted by
amicable consent of the parties, for the purpose of obtaining a
decision of the court on some matter of law involved in it. Bouvier.
Burrill.
 -- Amicable numbers (Math.), two numbers, each of which is equal to
the sum of all the aliquot parts of the other.

Syn.
 -- Friendly; peaceable; kind; harmonious.
 -- Amicable, Friendly. Neither of these words denotes any great
warmth of affection, since friendly has by no means the same strength
as its noun friendship. It does, however, imply something of real
cordiality; while amicable supposes very little more than that the
parties referred to are not disposed to quarrel. Hence, we speak of
amicable relations between two countries, an amicable adjustment of
difficulties. "Those who entertain friendly feelings toward each
other can live amicably together."

AMICABLENESS
Am"i*ca*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being amicable; amicability.

AMICABLY
Am"i*ca*bly, adv.

Defn: In an amicable manner.

AMICE
Am"ice, n. Etym: [OE. amyse, prob. for amyt, OF. amit, ameit, fr. L.
amictus cloak, the word being confused with amice, almuce, a hood or
cape. See next word.]

Defn: A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but now
about the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Church
while saying Mass.

AMICE
Am"ice, n. Etym: [OE. amuce, amisse, OF. almuce, aumuce, F. aumusse,
LL. almucium, almucia, aumucia: of unknown origin; cf. G. mütze cap,
prob. of the same origin. Cf. Mozetta.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A hood, or cape with a hood, made of lined with gray fur,
formerly worn by the clergy; -- written also amess, amyss, and
almuce.

AMID
A*mid", prep.

Defn: See Amidst.

AMIDE
Am"ide, n. Etym: [Ammonia + -ide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid element
or radical. It may also be regarded as ammonia in which one or more
hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an acid atom or radical. Acid
amide, a neutral compound formed by the substitution of the amido
group for hydroxyl in an acid.

AMIDIN
Am"i*din, n. Etym: [Cf. F. amidine, fr. amido starch, fr. L. amylum,
Gr. Meal.] (Chem.)

Defn: Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, like
horn. It is soluble in cold water.

AMIDO
A*mi"do, a. Etym: [From Amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: Containing, or derived from, amidogen. Amido acid, an acid in
which a portion of the nonacid hydrogen has been replaced by the
amido group. The amido acids are both basic and acid.
 -- Amido group, amidogen, NH2.

AMIDOGEN
A*mid"o*gen, n. Etym: [Amide + -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical, NH2, not yet obtained in a separate state,
which may be regarded as ammonia from the molecule of which one of
its hydrogen atoms has been removed; -- called also the amido group,
and in composition represented by the form amido.

AMIDOL
Am"i*dol, n.  [Amide + -ol as in alcohol.] (Photog. & Chem.)

Defn: A salt of a diamino phenol, C6H3(OH)(NH2)2, used as a
developer.

AMIDSHIPS
A*mid"ships, adv. (Naut.)

Defn: In the middle of a ship, with regard to her length, and
sometimes also her breadth. Totten.

AMIDST; AMID
A*midst", A*mid", prep. Etym: [OE. amidde, amiddes, on midden, AS. on
middan, in the middle, fr. midde the middle. The s is an adverbial
ending, originally marking the genitive; the t is a later addition,
as in whilst, amongst, alongst. See Mid.]

Defn: In the midst or middle of; surrounded or encompassed by; among.
"This fair tree amidst the garden." "Unseen amid the throng." "Amidst
thick clouds." Milton. "Amidst acclamations." "Amidst the splendor
and festivity of a court." Macaulay.
But rather famish them amid their plenty. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Amidst, Among. These words differ to some extent from each other,
as will be seen from their etymology. Amidst denotes in the midst or
middle of, and hence surrounded by; as, this work was written amidst
many interruptions. Among denotes a mingling or intermixing with
distinct or separable objects; as, "He fell among thieves." "Blessed
art thou among women." Hence, we say, among the moderns, among the
ancients, among the thickest of trees, among these considerations,
among the reasons I have to offer. Amid and amidst are commonly used
when the idea of separate or distinguishable objects is not
prominent. Hence, we say, they kept on amidst the storm, amidst the
gloom, he was sinking amidst the waves, he persevered amidst many
difficulties; in none of which cases could among be used. In like
manner, Milton speaks of Abdiel, --
The seraph Abdiel, faithful found; Among the faithless faithful only
he, because he was then considered as one of the angels. But when the
poet adds, --
From amidst them forth he passed, we have rather the idea of the
angels as a collective body.
Those squalid cabins and uncleared woods amidst which he was born.
Macaulay.

AMIGO
A*mi"go, n.; pl. Amigos (#). [Sp., fr. L. amicus.]

Defn: A friend; -- a Spanish term applied in the Philippine Islands
to friendly natives.

AMINE
Am"ine, n. Etym: [Ammonia + -ine.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of strongly basic substances derived from
ammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atom
or radical.

AMINOL
Am"i*nol, n. [From amine.] (Pharm.)

Defn: A colorless liquid prepared from herring brine and containing
amines, used as a local antiseptic.

AMIOID
Am"i*oid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Amioidei.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Amioidei.

AMIOIDEI
Am`i*oi"de*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Amia + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of ganoid fishes of which Amis is type. See Bowfin and
Ganoidei.

AMIR
A*mir", n.

Defn: Same as Ameer.

AMISH
Am"ish, n. pl. [Written also Omish.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The Amish Mennonites.

AMISH
Am"ish, a. [Written also Omish.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the followers of Jacob
Amman, a strict Mennonite of the 17th century, who even proscribed
the use of buttons and shaving as "worldly conformity". There are
several branches of Amish Mennonites in the United States.

AMISS
A*miss", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + miss.]

Defn: Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill.
What error drives our eyes and ears amiss Shak.
Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss. James iv. 3.
To take (an act, thing) amiss, to impute a wrong motive to (an act or
thing); to take offense at' to take unkindly; as, you must not take
these questions amiss.

AMISS
A*miss", a.

Defn: Wrong; faulty; out of order; improper; as, it may not be amiss
to ask advice.

Note: [Used only in the predicate.] Dryden.
His wisdom and virtue can not always rectify that which is amiss in
himself or his circumstances. Wollaston.

AMISS
A*miss", n.

Defn: A fault, wrong, or mistake. [Obs.]
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss. Shak.

AMISSIBILITY
A*mis`si*bil"i*ty, Etym: [Cf. F. amissibilité. See Amit.]

Defn: The quality of being amissible; possibility of being lost. [R.]
Notions of popular rights and the amissibility of sovereign power for
misconduct were alternately broached by the two great religious
parties of Europe. Hallam.

AMISSIBLE
A*mis"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. amissibilis: cf. F. amissible.]

Defn: Liable to be lost. [R.]

AMISSION
A*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. amissio: cf. F. amission.]

Defn: Deprivation; loss. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

AMIT
A*mit", v. t. Etym: [L. amittere, amissum, to lose; a (ab) + mittere
to send. See Missile.]

Defn: To lose. [Obs.]
A lodestone fired doth presently amit its proper virtue. Sir T.
Browne.

AMITOSIS
Am`i*to"sis, n. [NL. See A-not, and Mitosis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Cell division in which there is first a simple cleavage of the
nucleus without change in its structure (such as the formation of
chromosomes), followed by the division of the cytoplasm; direct cell
division; -- opposed to mitosis. It is not the usual mode of
division, and is believed by many to occur chiefly in highly
specialized cells which are incapable of long-continued
multiplication, in transitory structures, and in those in early
stages of degeneration.

AMITOTIC
Am`i*tot"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to amitosis; karyostenotic; -- opposed to
mitotic.

AMITY
Am"i*ty, n.; pl. Amities. Etym: [F. amitié, OF. amistié, amisté, fr.
an assumed LL. amisitas, fr. L. amicus friendly, from amare to love.
See Amiable.]

Defn: Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies,
or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty of
amity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories.
To live on terms of amity with vice. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Harmony; friendliness; friendship; affection; good will; peace.

AMMA
Am"ma, n. Etym: [LL. amma, prob. of interjectional or imitative
origin: cf. Sp. ama, G. amme, nurse, Basque ama mother, Heb. , Ar.
immun, ummun.]

Defn: An abbes or spiritual mother.

AMMETER
Am"me*ter, n. (Physics)

Defn: A contraction of amperometer or ampèremeter.

AMMIRAL
Am"mi*ral, n.

Defn: An obsolete form of admiral. "The mast of some great ammiral."
Milton.

AMMITE
Am"mite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: Oölite or roestone; -- written also hammite. [Obs.]

AMMODYTE
Am"mo*dyte, n. Etym: [L. ammodytes, Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of a genus of fishes; the sand eel.
(b) A kind of viper in southern Europe. [Obs.]

AMMONAL
Am"mo*nal`, n.  [Ammonium + aluminium.]

Defn: An explosive consisting of a mixture of powdered aluminium and
nitrate of ammonium.

AMMONIA
Am*mo"ni*a, n. Etym: [From sal ammoniac, which was first obtaining
near the temple of Jupiter Ammon, by burning camel's dung. See
Ammoniac.] (Chem.)

Defn: A gaseous compound of hydrogen and nitrogen, NH3, with a
pungent smell and taste: -- often called volatile alkali, and spirits
of hartshorn.

AMMONIAC; AMMONIACAL
Am*mo"ni*ac, Am`mo*ni"a*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ammonia, or possessing its properties; as,
an ammoniac salt; ammoniacal gas. Ammoniacal engine, an engine in
which the vapor of ammonia is used as the motive force.
 -- Sal ammoniac Etym: [L. sal ammoniacus], the salt usually called
chloride of ammonium, and formerly muriate of ammonia.

AMMONIAC; GUM AMMONIAC
Am*mo"ni*ac ([or] Gum` am*mo"ni*ac , n. Etym: [L. Ammoniacum, Gr.
Ammon; cf. F. ammoniac. See Ammonite.] (Med.)

Defn: The concrete juice (gum resin) of an umbelliferous plant, the
Dorema ammoniacum. It is brought chiefly from Persia in the form of
yellowish tears, which occur singly, or are aggregated into masses.
It has a peculiar smell, and a nauseous, sweet taste, followed by a
bitter one. It is inflammable, partially soluble in water and in
spirit of wine, and is used in medicine as an expectorant and
resolvent, and for the formation of certain plasters.

AMMONIACAL FERMENTATION
Am`mo*ni"a*cal fer`men*ta"tion.

Defn: Any fermentation process by which ammonia is formed, as that by
which urea is converted into ammonium carbonate when urine is exposed
to the air.

AMMONIATED
Am*mo"ni*a`ted, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with ammonia.

AMMONIC
Am*mo"nic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ammonia.

AMMONITE
Am"mon*ite, n. Etym: [L. cornu Ammonis born of Ammon; L. Ammon, Gr.
Amun.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil cephalopod shell related to the nautilus. There are
many genera and species, and all are extinct, the typical forms
having existed only in the Mesozoic age, when they were exceedingly
numerous. They differ from the nautili in having the margins of the
septa very much lobed or plaited, and the siphuncle dorsal. Also
called serpent stone, snake stone, and cornu Ammonis.

AMMONITIFEROUS
Am`mon*i*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Ammonite + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing fossil ammonites.

AMMONITOIDEA
Am*mon`i*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Ammonite + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An extensive group of fossil cephalopods often very abundant in
Mesozoic rocks. See Ammonite.

AMMONIUM
Am*mo"ni*um, n. Etym: [See Ammonia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical, NH4, having the chemical relations of a
strongly basic element like the alkali metals.

AMMUNITION
Am`mu*ni"tion, n. Etym: [F. amunition, for munition, prob. caused by
taking la munition as l'amunition. See Munition.]

1. Military stores, or provisions of all kinds for attack or defense.
[Obs.]

2. Articles used in charging firearms and ordnance of all kinds; as
powder, balls, shot, shells, percussion caps, rockets, etc.

3. Any stock of missiles, literal or figurative. Ammunition bread,
shoes, etc., such as are contracted for by government, and supplied
to the soldiers. [Eng.]

AMMUNITION
Am`mu*ni"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ammunitioned; p pr. & vb. n.
Ammunitioning.]

Defn: To provide with ammunition.

AMNESIA
Am*ne"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Forgetfulness; also, a defect of speech, from cerebral disease,
in which the patient substitutes wrong words or names in the place of
those he wishes to employ. Quian.

AMNESIC
Am*ne"sic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to amnesia. "Amnesic or coördinate defects."
Quian.

AMNESTIC
Am*nes"tic, a.

Defn: Causing loss of memory.

AMNESTY
Am"nes*ty, n. Etym: [L. amnestia, Gr. amnistie, earlier amnestie. See
Mean, v.]

1. Forgetfulness; cessation of remembrance of wrong; oblivion.

2. An act of the sovereign power granting oblivion, or a general
pardon, for a past offense, as to subjects concerned in an
insurrection.

AMNESTY
Am"nes*ty, v. t. [imp. p. p. Amnestied; p. pr. & vb. n. Amnestying.]

Defn: To grant amnesty to.

AMNICOLIST
Am*nic"o*list, n. Etym: [L. amnicola, amnis a river + colere to
dwell.]

Defn: One who lives near a river. [Obs.] Bailey.

AMNIGENOUS
Am*nig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. amnigena; amnis a river + root gen of
gignere to beget.]

Defn: Born or bred in, of, or near a river. [Obs.] Bailey.

AMNION
Am"ni*on, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, and
reptiles.

AMNIOS
Am"ni*os, n.

Defn: Same as Amnion.

AMNIOTA
Am`ni*o"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Amnion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: That group of vertebrates which develops in its embryonic life
the envelope called the amnion. It comprises the reptiles, the birds,
and the mammals.

AMNIOTIC
Am`ni*ot"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. amniotique.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the amnion; characterized by an amnion; as,
the amniotic fluid; the amniotic sac. Amniotic acid. (Chem.) [R.] See
Allantoin.

AMOEBA
A*moe"ba, n; pl. L. Amoebæ; E. Amoebas. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing many
changes of form at will. See Rhizopoda.

AMOEBAEUM
Am`oe*bæ"um, n. Etym: [L. amoebaeus, Gr. amoebaeum carmen, Gr.

Defn: A poem in which persons are represented at speaking
alternately; as the third and seventh eclogues of Virgil.

AMOEBEA
Am`oe*be"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: That division of the Rhizopoda which includes the amoeba and
similar forms.

AMOEBEAN
Am`oe*be"an, a.

Defn: Alternately answering.

AMOEBIAN
A*moe"bi*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Amoebea.

AMOEBIFORM; AMOEBOID
A*moe"bi*form, A*moe"boid, a. Etym: [Amoeba + -form or -oid.] (Biol.)

Defn: Resembling an amoeba; amoeba-shaped; changing in shape like an
amoeba. Amoeboid movement, movement produced, as in the amoeba, by
successive processes of prolongation and retraction.

AMOEBOUS
A*moe"bous, a.

Defn: Like an amoeba in structure.

AMOLE
A*mo"le, n. [Mex.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any detergent plant, or the part of it used as a detergent, as
the roots of Agave Americana, Chlorogalum pomeridianum, etc. [Sp.
Amer. & Mex.]

AMOLITION
Am`o*li"tion, n. Etym: [L. amolitio, fr. amoliri to remove; a (ab) +
moliri to put in motion.]

Defn: Removal; a putting away. [Obs.] Bp. Ward (1673).

AMOMUM
A*mo"mum, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of aromatic plants. It includes species which bear
cardamoms, and grains of paradise.

AMONESTE
A*mon"este, v. t.

Defn: To admonish. [Obs.]

AMONG; AMONGST
A*mong", A*mongst", prep. Etym: [OE. amongist, amonges, amonge,
among, AS. onmang, ongemang, gemang, in a crowd or mixture. For the
ending -st see Amidst. See Mingle.]

1. Mixed or mingled; surrounded by.
They heard, And from his presence hid themselves among The thickest
trees. Milton.

2. Conjoined, or associated with, or making part of the number of; in
the number or class of.
Blessed art thou among women. Luke i. 28.

3. Expressing a relation of dispersion, distribution, etc.; also, a
relation of reciprocal action.
What news among the merchants Shak.
Human sacrifices were practiced among them. Hume.
Divide that gold amongst you. Marlowe.
Whether they quarreled among themselves, or with their neighbors.
Addison.

Syn.
 -- Amidst; between. See Amidst, Between.

AMONTILLADO
A*mon`til*la"do, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A dry kind of cherry, of a light color. Simmonds.

AMORET
Am"o*ret, n. Etym: [OF. amorette, F. amourette, dim. of amour.]

1. An amorous girl or woman; a wanton. [Obs.] J. Warton.

2. A love knot, love token, or love song. (pl.) Love glances or love
tricks. [Obs.]

3. A petty love affair or amour. [Obs.]

AMORETTE
Am"o*rette", n.

Defn: An amoret. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

AMORIST
Am"o*rist, n. Etym: [L. armor love. See Amorous.]

Defn: A lover; a gallant. [R.] Milton.
It was the custom for an amorist to impress the name of his mistress
in the dust, or upon the damp earth, with letters fixed upon his
shoe. Southey.

A-MORNINGS
A-morn"ings, adv. Etym: [See Amorwe. The -s is a genitival ending.
See -wards.]

Defn: In the morning; every morning. [Obs.]
And have such pleasant walks into the woods A-mornings. J. Fletcher.

AMOROSA
Am`o*ro"sa, n. Etym: [It. amoroso, fem. amorosa.]

Defn: A wanton woman; a courtesan. Sir T. Herbert.

AMOROSITY
Am`o*ros"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being amorous; lovingness. [R.] Galt.

AMOROSO
Am`o*ro"so, n. Etym: [It. amoroso, LL. amorosus.]

Defn: A lover; a man enamored.

AMOROSO
Am`o*ro"so, adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: In a soft, tender, amatory style.

AMOROUS
Am"o*rous, a. Etym: [OF. amoros, F. amoreux, LL. amorosus, fr. L.
amor love, fr. amare to love.]

1. Inclined to love; having a propensity to love, or to sexual
enjoyment; loving; fond; affectionate; as, an amorous disposition.

2. Affected with love; in love; enamored; -- usually with of;
formerly with on.
Thy roses amorous of the moon. Keats.
High nature amorous of the good. Tennyson.
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero. Shak.

3. Of or relating to, or produced by, love. "Amorous delight."
Milton. "Amorous airs." Waller.

Syn.
 -- Loving; fond; tender; passionate; affectionate; devoted; ardent.

AMOROUSLY
Am"o*rous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an amorous manner; fondly.

AMOROUSNESS
Am"o*rous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being amorous, or inclined to sexual love;
lovingness.

AMORPHA
A*mor"pha, n.; pl. Amorphas. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of leguminous shrubs, having long clusters of purple
flowers; false or bastard indigo. Longfellow.

AMORPHISM
A*mor"phism, n. Etym: [See Amorphous.]

Defn: A state of being amorphous; esp. a state of being without
crystallization even in the minutest particles, as in glass, opal,
etc.

Note: There are stony substances which, when fused, may cool as glass
or as stone; the glass state is spoken of as a state of amorphism.

AMORPHOUS
A*mor"phous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Having no determinate form; of irregular; shapeless. Kirwan.

2. Without crystallization in the ultimate texture of a solid
substance; uncrystallized.

3. Of no particular kind or character; anomalous.
Scientific treatises . . . are not seldom rude and amorphous in
style. Hare.
-- A*mor"phous*ly, adv.
 -- A*mor"phous*ness, n.

AMORPHOZOA
A*mor`pho*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Animals without a mouth or regular internal organs, as the
sponges.

AMORPHOZOIC
A*mor`pho*zo"ic, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amorphozoa.

AMORPHY
A*mor"phy, n. Etym: [Gr. amorphie. See Amorphous.]

Defn: Shapelessness. [Obs.] Swift.

AMORT
A*mort", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + F. mort death, dead; all amort is for
alamort.]

Defn: As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed. Shak.

AMORTISE; AMORTISATION; AMORTISABLE; AMORTISEMENT
A*mor"tise, v., A*mor`ti*sa"tion, n., A*mor"tis*a*ble, a.,
A*mor"tise*ment, n.

Defn: Same as Amortize, Amortization, etc.

AMORTIZABLE
A*mor"tiz*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. amortissable.]

Defn: Capable of being cleared off, as a debt.

AMORTIZATION
A*mor`ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [LL. amortisatio, admortizatio. See
Amortize, and cf. Admortization.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The act or right of alienating lands to a corporation, which
was considered formerly as transferring them to dead hands, or in
mortmain.

2. The extinction of a debt, usually by means of a sinking fund;
also, the money thus paid. Simmonds.

AMORTIZE
A*mor"tize, v. t. Etym: [OE. amortisen, LL. amortisare, admortizare,
F. amortir to sell in mortmain, to extinguish; L. ad + mors death.
See Mortmain].

1. To make as if dead; to destroy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Law)

Defn: To alienate in mortmain, that is, to convey to a corporation.
See Mortmain.

3. To clear off or extinguish, as a debt, usually by means of a
sinking fund.

AMORTIZEMENT
A*mor"tize*ment, n. Etym: [F. amortissement.]

Defn: Same as Amortization.

AMORWE
A*mor"we, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- on + OE. morwe. See Morrow.]

1. In the morning. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. On the following morning. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AMOTION
A*mo"tion, n. Etym: [L. amotio. See Amove.]

1. Removal; ousting; especially, the removal of a corporate officer
from his office.

2. Deprivation of possession.

AMOTUS
A*mo"tus, a. Etym: [L., withdrawn (from it (Zoöl.)

Defn: Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip does
not touch the ground.

AMOUNT
A*mount", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Amounted; p. pr. & vb. n. Amounting.]
Etym: [OF. amonter to increase, advance, ascend, fr. amont (equiv. to
L. ad montem to the mountain) upward, F. amont up the river. See
Mount, n.]

1. To go up; to ascend. [Obs.]
So up he rose, and thence amounted straight. Spenser.

2. To rise or reach by an accumulation of particular sums or
quantities; to come (to) in the aggregate or whole; -- with to or
unto.

3. To rise, reach, or extend in effect, substance, or influence; to
be equivalent; to come practically (to); as, the testimony amounts to
very little.

AMOUNT
A*mount", v. t.

Defn: To signify; to amount to. [Obs.]

AMOUNT
A*mount", n.

1. The sum total of two or more sums or quantities; the aggregate;
the whole quantity; a totality; as, the amount of 7 and 9 is 16; the
amount of a bill; the amount of this year's revenue.

2. The effect, substance, value, significance, or result; the sum;
as, the amount of the testimony is this.
The whole amount of that enormous fame. Pope.

AMOUR
A*mour", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. amor love.]

1. Love; affection. [Obs.]

2. Love making; a love affair; usually, an unlawful connection in
love; a love intrigue; an illicit love affair. In amours with, in
love with. [Obs.]

AMOUR PROPRE
A"mour` pro"pre. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Self-love; self-esteem.

AMOVABILITY
A*mov`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Liability to be removed or dismissed from office. [R.] T.
Jefferson.

AMOVABLE
A*mov"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. amovible.]

Defn: Removable.

AMOVE
A*move", v. t. Etym: [L. amovere; a- (ab) + movere to move: cf. OF.
amover.]

1. To remove, as a person or thing, from a position. [Obs.] Dr. H.
More.

2. (Law)

Defn: To dismiss from an office or station.

AMOVE
A*move", v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. amovir, L. admovere to move to, to
excite; ad + movere.]

Defn: To move or be moved; to excite. [Obs.] Spenser.

AMPELITE
Am"pe*lite, n. Etym: [L. ampelitis, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: An earth abounding in pyrites, used by the ancients to kill
insects, etc., on vines; -- applied by Brongniart to a carbonaceous
alum schist.

AMPELOPSIS
Am`pe*lop"sis (am`pe*lop"sis), n. [NL., fr. Gr. 'a`mpelos vine +
'o`psis appearance.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus formerly including the Virginia creeper.

AMPERAGE
Am*per"age, n. (Elec.)

Defn: The strength of a current of electricity carried by a conductor
or generated by a machine, measured in ampères.

AMPERE; AMPERE
Am`père", Am*pere", n. Etym: [From the name of a French electrician.]
(Elec.)

Defn: The unit of electric current; -- defined by the International
Electrical Congress in 1893 and by U. S. Statute as, one tenth of the
unit of current of the C. G. S. system of electro-magnetic units, or
the practical equivalent of the unvarying current which, when passed
through a standard solution of nitrate of silver in water, deposits
silver at the rate of 0.001118 grams per second. Called also the
international ampère.

AMPERE FOOT
Am`père" foot. (Elec.)

Defn: A unit, employed in calculating fall of pressure in
distributing mains, equivalent to a current of one ampère flowing
through one foot of conductor.

AMPERE HOUR; AMPERE MINUTE; AMPERE SECOND
Ampère hour. (Elec.)

Defn: The quantity of electricity delivered in one hour by a current
whose average strength is one ampère. It is used as a unit of
quantity, and is equal to 3600 coulombs. The terms Ampère minute and
Ampère second are sometimes similarly used.

AMPEREMETER; AMPEROMETER
Am`père"me`ter, Am`pe*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Ampère + meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the strength of an electrical
current in ampères.

AMPERE TURN
Ampère turn. (Elec.)

Defn: A unit equal to the product of one complete convolution (of a
coiled conductor) into one ampère of current; thus, a conductor
having five convolutions and carrying a current of half an ampère is
said to have 2½ ampère turns. The magnetizing effect of a coil is
proportional to the number of its ampère turns.

AMPERSAND
Am"per*sand, n. Etym: [A corruption of and, per se and, i. e., & by
itself makes and.]

Defn: A word used to describe the character Halliwell.

AMPHI-
Am*phi-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A prefix in words of Greek origin, signifying both, of both
kinds, on both sides, about, around.

AMPHIARTHRODIAL
Am`phi*ar*thro"di*al, a. Etym: [Pref. amphi- + arthrodial.]

Defn: Characterized by amphiarthrosis.

AMPHIARTHROSIS
Am`phi*ar*thro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A form of articulation in which the bones are connected by
intervening substance admitting slight motion; symphysis.

AMPHIASTER
Am"phi*as`ter, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The achromatic figure, formed in mitotic cell-division,
consisting of two asters connected by a spindle-shaped bundle of
rodlike fibers diverging from each aster, and called the spindle.

AMPHIBIA
Am*phib"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [See Amphibium.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the classes of vertebrates.

Note: The Amphibia are distinguished by having usually no scales, by
having eggs and embryos similar to those of fishes, and by undergoing
a complete metamorphosis, the young having gills. There are three
living orders: (1) The tailless, as the frogs (Anura); (2) The tailed
(Urodela), as the salamanders, and the siren group (Sirenoidea),
which retain the gills of the young state (hence called
Perennibranchiata) through the adult state, among which are the
siren, proteus, etc.; (3) The Coecilians, or serpentlike Amphibia
(Ophiomorpha or Gymnophiona), with minute scales and without limbs.
The extinct Labyrinthodonts also belonged to this class. The term is
sometimes loosely applied to both reptiles and amphibians
collectively.

AMPHIBIAL
Am*phib"i*al (-al), a. & n.

Defn: Amphibian. [R.]

AMPHIBIAN
Am*phib"i*an (-an), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amphibia; as, amphibian reptiles.

AMPHIBIAN
Am*phib"i*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Amphibia.

AMPHIBIOLOGICAL
Am*phib`i*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to amphibiology.

AMPHIBIOLOGY
Am*phib`i*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. amphibiologie.]

Defn: A treatise on amphibious animals; the department of natural
history which treats of the Amphibia.

AMPHIBIOTICA
Am*phib`i*ot"i*ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of insects having aquatic larvæ.

AMPHIBIOUS
Am*phib"i*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. i. e., both on land in water;

1. Having the ability to live both on land and in water, as frogs,
crocodiles, beavers, and some plants.

2. Pertaining to, adapted for, or connected with, both land and
water.
The amphibious character of the Greeks was already determined: they
were to be lords of land and sea. Hare.

3. Of a mixed nature; partaking of two natures.
Not in free and common socage, but in this amphibious subordinate
class of villein socage. Blackstone.

AMPHIBIOUSLY
Am*phib"i*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: Like an amphibious being.

AMPHIBIUM
Am*phib"i*um, n.; pl. L. Amphibia; E. Amphibiums. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
Amphibious.]

Defn: An amphibian.

AMPHIBLASTIC
Am`phi*blas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Segmenting unequally; -- said of telolecithal ova with complete
segmentation.

AMPHIBOLE
Am"phi*bole, n. Etym: [Gr. amphibole. Haüy so named the genus from
the great variety of color and composition assumed by the mineral.]
(Min.)

Defn: A common mineral embracing many varieties varying in color and
in composition. It occurs in monoclinic crystals; also massive,
generally with fibrous or columnar structure. The color varies from
white to gray, green, brown, and black. It is a silicate of magnesium
and calcium, with usually aluminium and iron. Some common varieties
are tremolite, actinolite, asbestus, edenite, hornblende (the last
name being also used as a general term for the whole species).
Amphibole is a constituent of many crystalline rocks, as syenite,
diorite, most varieties of trachyte, etc. See Hornblende.

AMPHIBOLIC
Am`phi*bol"ic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to amphiboly; ambiguous; equivocal.

2. Of or resembling the mineral amphibole.

AMPHIBOLOGICAL
Am*phib`o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of doubtful meaning; ambiguous. "Amphibological expressions."
Jer. Taylor.
 -- Am*phib`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

AMPHIBOLOGY
Am`phi*bol"o*gy, n.; pl. Amphibologies. Etym: [L. amphibologia, for
amphibolia, fr. Gr. logia as if fr. Gr. amphibologie. See Amphiboly.]

Defn: A phrase, discourse, or proposition, susceptible of two
interpretations; and hence, of uncertain meaning. It differs from
equivocation, which arises from the twofold sense of a single term.

AMPHIBOLOUS
Am*phib"o*lous, a. Etym: [L. amphibolus, Gr. Amphibole.]

1. Ambiguous; doubtful. [Obs.]
Never was there such an amphibolous quarrel -- both parties declaring
themselves for the king. Howell.

2. (Logic)

Defn: Capable of two meanings.
An amphibolous sentence is one that is capable of two meanings, not
from the double sense of any of the words, but from its admitting of
a double construction; e. g., "The duke yet lives that Henry shall
depose." Whately.

AMPHIBOLY
Am*phib"o*ly, n.; pl. Amphibolies. Etym: [L. amphibolia, Gr.
amphibolie. See Amphibolous.]

Defn: Ambiguous discourse; amphibology.
If it oracle contrary to our interest or humor, we will create an
amphiboly, a double meaning where there is none. Whitlock.

AMPHIBRACH
Am"phi*brach, n. Etym: [L. (Anc. Pros.)

Defn: A foot of three syllables, the middle one long, the first and
last short (as, h. In modern prosody the accented syllable takes the
place of the long and the unaccented of the short; as, pro-phet''ic.

AMPHICARPIC; AMPHICARPOUS
Am`phi*car"pic, Am`phi*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing fruit of two kinds, either as to form or time of
ripening.

AMPHICHROIC
Am`phi*chro"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Exhibiting or producing two colors, as substances which in the
color test may change red litmus to blue and blue litmus to red.

AMPHICOELIAN; AMPHICOELOUS
Am`phi*coe"li*an, Am`phi*coe"lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having both ends concave; biconcave; -- said of vertebræ.

AMPHICOME
Am"phi*come, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A kind of figured stone, rugged and beset with eminences,
anciently used in divination. [Obs.] Encyc. Brit.

AMPHICTYONIC
Am*phic`ty*on"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amphictyons or their League or Council;
as, an Amphictyonic town or state; the Amphictyonic body. W. Smith.

AMPHICTYONS
Am*phic"ty*ons, n. pl. Etym: [L. Amphictyones, Gr. (Grecian Hist.)

Defn: Deputies from the confederated states of ancient Greece to a
congress or council. They considered both political and religious
matters.

AMPHICTYONY
Am*phic"ty*o*ny, n.; pl. Amphictyonies. Etym: [Gr. (Grecian Hist.)

Defn: A league of states of ancient Greece; esp. the celebrated
confederation known as the Amphictyonic Council. Its object was to
maintain the common interests of Greece.

AMPHID
Am"phid, n. Etym: [Gr. amphide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and a
base, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, or
tellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound. [R.] Berzelius.

AMPHIDISC
Am"phi*disc, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar small siliceous spicule having a denticulated wheel
at each end; -- found in freshwater sponges.

AMPHIDROMICAL
Am`phi*drom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to an Attic festival at the naming of a child; -- so
called because the friends of the parents carried the child around
the hearth and then named it.

AMPHIGAMOUS
Am*phig"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a structure entirely cellular, and no distinct sexual
organs; -- a term applied by De Candolle to the lowest order of
plants.

AMPHIGEAN
Am`phi*ge"an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Extending over all the zones, from the tropics to the polar
zones inclusive.

AMPHIGEN
Am"phi*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. -gen: cf. F. amphigène.] (Chem.)

Defn: An element that in combination produces amphid salt; -- applied
by Berzelius to oxygen, sulphur, selenium, and tellurium. [R.]

AMPHIGENE
Am"phi*gene, n. (Min.)

Defn: Leucite.

AMPHIGENESIS
Am`phi*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Sexual generation; amphigony.

AMPHIGENOUS
Am*phig"e*nous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Increasing in size by growth on all sides, as the lichens.

AMPHIGONIC
Am`phi*gon"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to amphigony; sexual; as, amphigonic propagation.
[R.]

AMPHIGONOUS
Am*phig"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Relating to both parents. [R.]

AMPHIGONY
Am*phig"o*ny, n.

Defn: Sexual propagation. [R.]

AMPHIGORIC
Am`phi*gor"ic, a. Etym: [See Amphigory.]

Defn: Nonsensical; absurd; pertaining to an amphigory.

AMPHIGORY
Am"phi*go*ry, n. Etym: [F. amphigouri, of uncertain derivation; perh.
fr. Gr.

Defn: A nonsense verse; a rigmarole, with apparent meaning, which on
further attention proves to be meaningless. [Written also
amphigouri.]

AMPHILOGISM; AMPHILOGY
Am*phil"o*gism, Am*phil"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Ambiguity of speech; equivocation. [R.]

AMPHIMACER
Am*phim"a*cer, n. Etym: [L. amphimacru, Gr. (Anc. Pros.)

Defn: A foot of three syllables, the middle one short and the others
long, as in cast. Andrews.

AMPHINEURA
Am`phi*neu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Mollusca remarkable for the bilateral symmetry of
the organs and the arrangement of the nerves.

AMPHIOXUS
Am`phi*ox"us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fishlike creature (Amphioxus lanceolatus), two or three
inches long, found in temperature seas; -- also called the lancelet.
Its body is pointed at both ends. It is the lowest and most
generalized of the vertebrates, having neither brain, skull,
vertebræ, nor red blood. It forms the type of the group Acrania,
Leptocardia, etc.

AMPHIPNEUST
Am*phip"neust, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a tribe of Amphibia, which have both lungs and gills at
the same time, as the proteus and siren.

AMPHIPOD
Am"phi*pod, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Amphipoda.

AMPHIPOD; AMPHIPODAN
Am"phi*pod, Am*phip"o*dan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.

AMPHIPODA
Am*phip"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., FR. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A numerous group of fourteen -- footed Crustacea, inhabiting
both fresh and salt water. The body is usually compressed laterally,
and the anterior pairs or legs are directed downward and forward, but
the posterior legs are usually turned upward and backward. The beach
flea is an example. See Tetradecapoda and Arthrostraca.

AMPHIPODOUS
Am*phip"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.

AMPHIPROSTYLE
Am*phip"ro*style, a. Etym: [L. amphiprostylos, Gr. amphiprostyle. See
Prostyle.] (Arch.)

Defn: Doubly prostyle; having columns at each end, but not at the
sides.
 -- n.

Defn: An amphiprostyle temple or edifice.

AMPHIRHINA
Am`phi*rhi"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name applied to the elasmobranch fishes, because the nasal
sac is double.

AMPHISBAENA
Am`phis*bæ"na, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. A fabled serpent with a head at each end, moving either way.
Milton.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of harmless lizards, serpentlike in form, without legs,
and with both ends so much alike that they appear to have a head at
each, and ability to move either way. See Illustration in Appendix.

Note: The Gordius aquaticus, or hairworm, has been called an
amphisbæna; but it belongs among the worms.

AMPHISBAENOID
Am`phis*bæ"noid, a. Etym: [NL., fr. L. amphisbaena + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the lizards of the genus Amphisbæna.

AMPHISCII; AMPHISCIANS
Am*phis"ci*i, Am*phis"cians, n. pl. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The inhabitants of the tropic, whose shadows in one part of the
year are cast to the north, and in the other to the south, according
as the sun is south or north of their zenith.

AMPHISTOMOUS
Am*phis"to*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a sucker at each extremity, as certain entozoa, by means
of which they adhere.

AMPHISTYLIC
Am`phi*sty"lic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having the mandibular arch articulated with the hyoid arch and
the cranium, as in the cestraciont sharks; -- said of a skull.

AMPHITHEATER; AMPHITHEATRE
Am`phi*the"a*ter, Am`phi*the"a*tre,, n. Etym: [L. amphitheatrum, fr.
Gr. amphithé\'83tre. See Theater.]

1. An oval or circular building with rising tiers of seats about an
open space called the arena.

Note: The Romans first constructed amphitheaters for combats of
gladiators and wild beasts.

2. Anything resembling an amphitheater in form; as, a level
surrounded by rising slopes or hills, or a rising gallery in a
theater.

AMPHITHEATRAL
Am`phi*the"a*tral, a. Etym: [L. amphitheatralis: cf. F.
amphithé\'83tral.]

Defn: Amphitheatrical; resembling an amphitheater.

AMPHITHEATRIC; AMPHITHEATRICAL
Am`phi*the*at"ric, Am`phi*the*at"ric*al, a. Etym: [L.
amphitheatricus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, exhibited in, or resembling, an
amphitheater.

AMPHITHEATRICALLY
Am`phi*the*at"ric*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form or manner of an amphitheater.

AMPHITROCHA
Am*phit"ro*cha, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of annelid larva having both a dorsal and a ventral
circle of special cilia.

AMPHITROPAL; AMPHITROPOUS
Am*phit"ro*pal, Am*phit"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the ovule inverted, but with the attachment near the
middle of one side; half anatropous.

AMPHIUMA
Am`phi*u"ma, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of amphibians, inhabiting the Southern United States,
having a serpentlike form, but with four minute limbs and two
persistent gill openings; the Congo snake.

AMPHOPEPTONE
Am`pho*pep"tone, n. Etym: [Gr. peptone.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A product of gastric digestion, a mixture of hemipeptone and
antipeptone.

AMPHORA
Am"pho*ra, n.; pl. Amophoræ. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Ampul.]

Defn: Among the ancients, a two-handled vessel, tapering at the
bottom, used for holding wine, oil, etc.

AMPHORAL
Am"pho*ral, a. Etym: [L. amphoralis.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, an amphora.

AMPHORIC
Am*phor"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Produced by, or indicating, a cavity in the lungs, not filled,
and giving a sound like that produced by blowing into an empty
decanter; as, amphoric respiration or resonance.

AMPHOTERIC
Am`pho*ter"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Partly one and partly the other; neither acid nor alkaline;
neutral. [R.] Smart.

AMPLE
Am"ple, a. Etym: [F. ample, L. amplus, prob. for ambiplus full on
both sides, the last syllable akin to L. plenus full. See Full, and
cf. Double.]

Defn: Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious;
roomy; widely extended.
All the people in that ample house Did to that image bow their humble
knees. Spenser.

2. Fully sufficient; abundant; liberal; copious; as, an ample
fortune; ample justice.

3. Not contracted of brief; not concise; extended; diffusive; as, an
ample narrative. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- Full; spacious; extensive; wide; capacious; abundant; plentiful;
plenteous; copious; bountiful; rich; liberal; munificent.
 -- Ample, Copious, Abundant, Plenteous. These words agree in
representing a thing as large, but under different relations,
according to the image which is used. Ample implies largeness,
producing a sufficiency or fullness of supply for every want; as,
ample stores or resources, ample provision. Copious carries with it
the idea of flow, or of collection at a single point; as, a copious
supply of materials. "Copious matter of my song." Milton. Abundant
and plenteous refer to largeness of quantity; as, abundant stores;
plenteous harvests.

AMPLECTANT
Am*plec"tant, a. Etym: [L. amplecti to embrace.] (Bot.)

Defn: Clasping a support; as, amplectant tendrils. Gray.

AMPLENESS
Am"ple*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being ample; largeness; fullness;
completeness.

AMPLEXATION
Am`plex*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. amplexari to embrace.]

Defn: An embrace. [Obs.]
An humble amplexation of those sacred feet. Bp. Hall.

AMPLEXICAUL
Am*plex"i*caul, a. Etym: [L. amplexus, p. p. of amplecti to encircle,
to embrace + caulis stem: cf. F. amplexicaule.] (Bot.)

Defn: Clasping or embracing a stem, as the base of some leaves. Gray.

AMPLIATE
Am"pli*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. ampliatus, p. p. of ampliare to make
wider, fr. amplus. See Ample.]

Defn: To enlarge. [R.]
To maintain and ampliate the external possessions of your empire.
Udall.

AMPLIATE
Am"pli*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the outer edge prominent; said of the wings of insects.

AMPLIATION
Am`pli*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. ampliatio: cf. F. ampliation.]

1. Enlargement; amplification. [R.]

2. (Civil Law)

Defn: A postponement of the decision of a cause, for further
consideration or re-argument.

AMPLIATIVE
Am"pli*a*tive, a. (Logic)

Defn: Enlarging a conception by adding to that which is already known
or received.
"All bodies possess power of attraction" is an ampliative judgment;
because we can think of bodies without thinking of attraction as one
of their immediate primary attribute. Abp. W. Thomson.

AMPLIFICATE
Am*plif"i*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. amplificatus, p. p. of amplificare.]

Defn: To amplify. [Obs.] Bailey.

AMPLIFICATION
Am`pli*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. amplificatio.]

1. The act of amplifying or enlarging in dimensions; enlargement;
extension.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: The enlarging of a simple statement by particularity of
description, the use of epithets, etc., for rhetorical effect;
diffuse narrative or description, or a dilating upon all the
particulars of a subject.
Exaggeration is a species of amplification. Brande & C.
I shall summarily, without any amplification at all, show in what
manner defects have been supplied. Sir J. Davies.

3. The matter by which a statement is amplified; as, the subject was
presented without amplifications.

AMPLIFICATIVE
Am*plif"i*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Amplificatory.

AMPLIFICATORY
Am*plif"i*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Serving to amplify or enlarge; amplificative. Morell.

AMPLIFIER
Am"pli*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who or that which amplifies.

AMPLIFY
Am"pli*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amplified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Amplifying.] Etym: [F. amplifier, L. amplificare. See Ample, -fy.]

1. To render larger, more extended, or more intense, and the like; --
used especially of telescopes, microscopes, etc.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: To enlarge by addition or discussion; to treat copiously by
adding particulars, illustrations, etc.; to expand; to make much of.
Troilus and Cressida was written by a Lombard author, but much
amplified by our English translator. Dryden.

AMPLIFY
Am"pli*fy, v. i.

1. To become larger. [Obs.]
Strait was the way at first, withouten light, But further in did
further amplify. Fairfax.

2. To speak largely or copiously; to be diffuse in argument or
description; to dilate; to expatiate; -- often with on or upon.
Watts.
He must often enlarge and amplify upon the subject he handles. South.

AMPLITUDE
Am"pli*tude, n. Etym: [L. amplitudo, fr. amplus: cf. F. amplitude.
See Ample.]

1. State of being ample; extent of surface or space; largeness of
dimensions; size.
The cathedral of Lincoln . . . is a magnificent structure,
proportionable to the amplitude of the diocese. Fuller.

2. Largeness, in a figurative sense; breadth; abundance; fullness.
(a) Of extent of capacity or intellectual powers. "Amplitude of
mind." Milton. "Amplitude of comprehension." Macaulay.
(b) Of extent of means or resources. "Amplitude of reward." Bacon.

3. (Astron.)
(a) The arc of the horizon between the true east or west point and
the center of the sun, or a star, at its rising or setting. At the
rising, the amplitude is eastern or ortive: at the setting, it is
western, occiduous, or occasive. It is also northern or southern,
when north or south of the equator.
(b) The arc of the horizon between the true east or west point and
the foot of the vertical circle passing through any star or object.

4. (Gun.)

Defn: The horizontal line which measures the distance to which a
projectile is thrown; the range.

5. (Physics)

Defn: The extent of a movement measured from the starting point or
position of equilibrium; -- applied especially to vibratory
movements.

6. (math.)

Defn: An angle upon which the value of some function depends; -- a
term used more especially in connection with elliptic functions.
Magnetic amplitude, the angular distance of a heavenly body, when on
the horizon, from the magnetic east or west point as indicated by the
compass. The difference between the magnetic and the true or
astronomical amplitude (see 3 above) is the "variation of the
compass."

AMPLY
Am"ply, adv.

Defn: In an ample manner.

AMPUL
Am"pul, n. Etym: [AS. ampella, ampolla, L. ampulla: cf. OF. ampolle,
F. ampoule.]

Defn: Same as Ampulla, 2.

AMPULLA
Am*pul"la, n.; pl. Ampullæ. Etym: [L. ]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A narrow-necked vessel having two handles and bellying out like
a jug.

2. (Eccl.)
(a) A cruet for the wine and water at Mass.
(b) The vase in which the holy oil for chrism, unction, or coronation
is kept. Shipley.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Any membranous bag shaped like a leathern bottle, as the
dilated end of a vessel or duct; especially the dilations of the
semicircular canals of the ear.

AMPULLACEOUS
Am`pul*la"ceous, a. Etym: [L. ampullaceus, fr. ampulla.]

Defn: Like a bottle or inflated bladder; bottle-shaped; swelling.
Kirby. Ampullaceous sac (Zoöl.), one of the peculiar cavities in the
tissues of sponges, containing the zooidal cells.

AMPULLAR; AMPULLARY
Am"pul*lar, Am`pul*la*ry, a.

Defn: Resembling an ampulla.

AMPULLATE; AMPULLATED
Am"pul*late, Am"pul*la`ted a.

Defn: Having an ampulla; flask-shaped; bellied.

AMPULLIFORM
Am*pul"li*form, a. Etym: [Ampulla + -form.]

Defn: Flask-shaped; dilated.

AMPUTATE
Am"pu*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amputated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Amputating.] Etym: [L. amputatus, p. p. of amputare: amb- + putare to
prune, putus clean, akin to E. pure. See Putative.]

1. To prune or lop off, as branches or tendrils.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: To cut off (a limb or projecting part (of the body). Wiseman.

AMPUTATION
Am`pu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. amputatio: cf. F. amputation.]

Defn: The act amputating; esp. the operation of cutting of a limb or
projecting part of the body.

AMPUTATOR
Am"pu*ta"tor, n.

Defn: One who amputates.

AMPYX
Am"pyx, n. Etym: [Gr. (Greek Antiq.)

Defn: A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the front
hair.

AMRITA
Am*ri"ta, n. Etym: [Skr. amrita.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: Immorality; also, the nectar conferring immortality.
 -- a. Ambrosial; immortal.

AMSEL; AMZEL
Am"sel, Am"zel, n. Etym: [Ger. See Ousel.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European ring ousel (Turdus torquatus).

AMT
Amt, n.; pl. Amter (#), E. Amts (#). [Dan. & Norw., fr. G.]

Defn: An administrative territorial division in Denmark and Norway.

Each of the provinces [of Denmark] is divided into several amts,
answering . . . to the English hundreds.
Encyc. Brit.

AMUCK
A*muck", a. & adv. Etym: [Malay amoq furious.]

Defn: In a frenzied and reckless. To run amuck, to rush out in a
state of frenzy, as the Malays sometimes do under the influence of
"bhang," and attack every one that comes in the way; to assail
recklessly and indiscriminately.
Satire's my weapon, but I'm too discreet To run amuck, and tilt at
all I meet. Pope.

AMULET
Am"u*let, n. Etym: [L. amuletum: cf. F. amulette.]

Defn: An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic,
etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such
as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms
or characters.

Note: [Also used figuratively.]

AMULETIC
Am`u*let"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an amulet; operating as a charm.

AMURCOUS
A*mur"cous, a. Etym: [LL. amurcous, L. amurca the dregs of olives,
Gr.

Defn: Full off dregs; foul. [R.] Knowles.

AMUSABLE
A*mus"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. amusable.]

Defn: Capable of being amused.

AMUSE
A*muse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Amused; p. pr. & vb. n. Amusing.] Etym:
[F. amuser to make stay, to detain, to amuse, ad) + OF. muser. See
Muse, v.]

1. To occupy or engage the attention of; to lose in deep thought; to
absorb; also, to distract; to bewilder. [Obs.]
Camillus set upon the Gauls when they were amused in receiving their
gold. Holland.
Being amused with grief, fear, and fright, he could not find the
house. Fuller.

2. To entertain or occupy in a pleasant manner; to stir with pleasing
or mirthful emotions; to divert.
A group children amusing themselves with pushing stones from the top
[of the cliff], and watching as they plunged into the lake. Gilpin.

3. To keep in extraction; to beguile; to delude.
He amused his followers with idle promises. Johnson.

Syn.
 -- To entertain; gratify; please; divert; beguile; deceive; occupy.
 -- To Amuse, Divert, Entertain. We are amused by that which occupies
us lightly and pleasantly. We are entertained by that which brings
our minds into agreeable contact with others, as conversation, or a
book. We are diverted by that which turns off our thoughts to
something of livelier interest, especially of a sportive nature, as a
humorous story, or a laughable incident.
Whatever amuses serves to kill time, to lull the faculties, and to
banish reflection. Whatever entertains usually a wakens the
understanding or gratifies the fancy. Whatever diverts is lively in
its nature, and sometimes tumultuous in its effects. Crabb.

AMUSE
A*muse", v. i.

Defn: To muse; to mediate. [Obs.]

AMUSED
A*mused", a.

1. Diverted.

2. Expressing amusement; as, an amused look.

AMUSEMENT
A*muse"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. amusement.]

1. Deep thought; muse. [Obs.]
Here I . . . fell into a strong and deep amusement, revolving in my
mind, with great perplexity, the amazing change of our affairs.
Fleetwood.

2. The state of being amused; pleasurable excitement; that which
amuses; diversion.
His favorite amusements were architecture and gardening. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Diversion; entertainment; recreation; relaxation; pastime; sport.

AMUSER
A*mus"er, n.

Defn: One who amuses.

AMUSETTE
Am`u*sette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A light field cannon, or stocked gun mounted on a swivel.

AMUSING
A*mus"ing, a.

Defn: Giving amusement; diverting; as, an amusing story.
 -- A*mus"ing*ly, adv.

AMUSIVE
A*mu"sive, a.

Defn: Having power to amuse or entertain the mind; fitted to excite
mirth. [R.] -- A*mu"sive*ly, adv.
 -- A*mu"sive*ness, n.

AMVIS
Am"vis, n.  [Ammonium (nitrate) + L. vis strength, force.]

Defn: An explosive consisting of ammonium nitrate, a derivative of
nitrobenzene, chlorated napthalene, and wood meal.

AMY
A*my", n. Etym: [F. ami, fr. L. amicus.]

Defn: A friend. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AMYELOUS
A*my"e*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Wanting the spinal cord.

AMYGDALA
A*myg"da*la (a*mig"da*la), n.; pl. -læ (-le). [L., an almond, fr. Gr.
'amygda`lh. See Almond.]

1. An almond.

2.  (Anat.)
 (a) One of the tonsils of the pharynx.
 (b) One of the rounded prominences of the lower surface of the
lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum, each side of the vallecula.

AMYGDALACEOUS
A*myg`da*la"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Akin to, or derived from, the almond.

AMYGDALATE
A*myg"da*late, a. Etym: [L. amygdala, amygdalum, almond, Gr. Almond.]

Defn: Pertaining to, resembling, or made of, almonds.

AMYGDALATE
A*myg"da*late, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: An emulsion made of almonds; milk of almonds. Bailey. Coxe.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt amygdalic acid.

AMYGDALIC
Am`yg*dal"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to almonds; derived from amygdalin; as,
amygdalic acid.

AMYGDALIFEROUS
A*myg`da*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. amygdalum almond + -ferous.]

Defn: Almond-bearing.

AMYGDALIN
A*myg"da*lin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside extracted from bitter almonds as a white,
crystalline substance.

AMYGDALINE
A*myg"da*line, a. Etym: [L. amygdalinus.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, almonds.

AMYGDALOID
A*myg"da*loid, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. F. amygdaloïde.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of trap or basaltic rock, containing small cavities,
occupied, wholly or in part, by nodules or geodes of different
minerals, esp. agates, quartz, calcite, and the zeolites. When the
imbedded minerals are detached or removed by decomposition, it is
porous, like lava.

AMYGDALOID; AMYGDALOIDAL
A*myg"da*loid, A*myg`da*loid"al, a.

1. Almond-shaped.

2. Pertaining to, or having the nature of, the rock amygdaloid.

AMYL
Am"yl, n. Etym: [L. amylum starch + -yl. Cf. Amidin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found in
amyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc.

AMYLACEOUS
Am`y*la"ceous, a. Etym: [L. amylum starch, Gr. Amidin.]

Defn: Pertaining to starch; of the nature of starch; starchy.

AMYL ALCOHOL
Am"yl al"co*hol. (Org. Chem.)

Defn: Any of eight isomeric liquid compounds, C5H11OH; ordinarily, a
mixture of two of these forming a colorless liquid with a peculiar
cough-exciting odor and burning taste, the chief constituent of fusel
oil. It is used as a source of amyl compounds, such as amyl acetate,
amyl nitrite, etc.

AMYLATE
Am"y*late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of the radical amyl with oxygen and a positive atom
or radical.

AMYLENE
Am"y*lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons, C5H10, of the
ethylene series. The colorless, volatile, mobile liquid commonly
called amylene is a mixture of different members of the group.

AMYLIC
A*myl"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether. Amylic
alcohol (Chem.), one of the series of alcohols, a transparent,
colorless liquid, having a peculiar odor. It is the hydroxide of
amyl.
 -- Amylic fermentation (Chem.), a process of fermentation in starch
or sugar in which amylic alcohol is produced. Gregory.

AMYL NITRITE
Amyl nitrite.

Defn: A yellowish oily volatile liquid, C5H11NO2, used in medicine as
a heart stimulant and a vasodilator. The inhalation of its vapor
instantly produces flushing of the face.

AMYLOBACTER
Am`y*lo*bac"ter, n. Etym: [L. amylum starch + NL. bacterium. See
Bacterium.] (Biol.)

Defn: A microörganism (Bacillus amylobacter) which develops in
vegetable tissue during putrefaction. Sternberg.

AMYLOGEN
A*myl"o*gen, n.  [Amylum + -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: That part of the starch granule or granulose which is soluble
in water.

AMYLOGENESIS
Am`y*lo*gen"e*sis, n. [Amylum + genesis.]

Defn: The formation of starch.

AMYLOGENIC
Am`y*lo*gen"ic, a.

1. Of or pert. to amylogen.

2.  Forming starch; -- applied specif. to leucoplasts.

AMYLOID
Am"y*loid, n.

1. A non-nitrogenous starchy food; a starchlike substance.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The substance deposited in the organs in amyloid degeneration.

AMYLOID; AMYLOIDAL
Am"y*loid, Am`y*loid"al, a. Etym: [L. amylum starch + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling or containing amyl; starchlike. Amyloid degeneration
(Med.), a diseased condition of various organs of the body, produced
by the deposit of an albuminous substance, giving a blue color with
iodine and sulphuric acid; -- called also waxy or lardaceous
degeneration.

AMYLOLYSIS
Am`y*lol"y*sis, n.  [Amylum + Gr.  a loosing.] (Chem.)

Defn: The conversion of starch into soluble products, as dextrins and
sugar, esp. by the action of enzymes. -- Am`y*lo*lyt"ic (#), a.

AMYLOLYTIC
Am`y*lo*ly"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Effecting the conversion of starch into soluble dextrin and
sugar; as, an amylolytic ferment. Foster.

AMYLOMETER
Am`y*lom"e*ter, n.  [Amylum + -meter.]

Defn: Instrument for determining the amount of starch in a substance.

AMYLOPLASTIC
Am`y*lo*plas"tic, a.  [Amylum + -plastic.]

Defn: Starch-forming; amylogenic.

AMYLOPSIN
Am`y*lop"sin, n.  [Amylum + Gr.  appearance.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The diastase of the pancreatic juice.

AMYLOSE
Am`y*lose", n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the starch group (C6H10O5)n of the carbohydrates; as,
starch, arabin, dextrin, cellulose, etc.

AMYOUS
Am"y*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Wanting in muscle; without flesh.

AMYSS
Am"yss, n.

Defn: Same as Amice, a hood or cape.

AN
An. Etym: [AS. an one, the same word as the numeral. See One, and cf.
A.]

Defn: This word is properly an adjective, but is commonly called the
indefinite article. It is used before nouns of the singular number
only, and signifies one, or any, but somewhat less emphatically. In
such expressions as "twice an hour," "once an age," a shilling an
ounce (see 2d A, 2), it has a distributive force, and is equivalent
to each, every.

Note: An is used before a word beginning with a vowel sound; as, an
enemy, an hour. It in also often used before h sounded, when the
accent of the word falls on the second syllable; as, an historian, an
hyena, an heroic deed. Many writers use a before h in such positions.
Anciently an was used before consonants as well as vowels.

AN
An, conj. Etym: [Shortened fr. and, OE. an., and, sometimes and if,
in introducing conditional clauses, like Icel. enda if, the same word
as and. Prob. and was originally pleonastic before the conditional
clause.]

Defn: If; -- a word used by old English authors. Shak.
Nay, an thou dalliest, then I am thy foe. B. Jonson.
An if, and if; if.

ANA-
An"a-. Etym: [/Gr. in comp., on, up, upwards.]

Defn: A prefix in words from the Greek, denoting up, upward,
throughout, backward, back, again, anew.

ANA
A"na, adv. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Of each; an equal quantity; as, wine and honey, ana (or,
contracted, aa), ., that is, of wine and honey, each, two ounces.
An apothecary with a . . . long bill of anas. Dryden.

ANA
*a"na. Etym: [The neut. pl. ending of Latin adjectives in -anus.]

Defn: A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote a
collection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus,
Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsoniana
of Johnson, etc.

Note: Used also as a substantive; as, the French anas.
It has been said that the table-talk of Selden is worth all the ana
of the Continent. Hallam.

-ANA
-a"na. [The neut. pl. ending of Latin adjectives in -anus.]

Defn: A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote a
collection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus,
Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsoniana
of Johnson, etc.

Used also as a substantive; as, the French anas.

It has been said that the table-talk of Selden is worth all the ana
of the Continent.
Hallam.

ANABAPTISM
An`a*bap"tism, n. Etym: [L. anabaptismus, Gr. anabaptisme. See
Anabaptize.]

Defn: The doctrine of the Anabaptists.

ANABAPTIST
An`a*bap"tist, n. Etym: [LL. anabaptista, fr. Gr. as if : cf. F.
anabaptiste.]

Defn: A name sometimes applied to a member of any sect holding that
rebaptism is necessary for those baptized in infancy.

Note: In church history, the name Anabaptists usually designates a
sect of fanatics who greatly disturbed the peace of Germany, the
Netherlands, etc., in the Reformation period. In more modern times
the name has been applied to those who do not regard infant baptism
as real and valid baptism.

ANABAPTISTIC; ANABAPTISTICAL
An`a*bap*tis"tic, An`a*bap*tis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Relating or attributed to the Anabaptists, or their doctrines.
Milton. Bp. Bull.

ANABAPTISTRY
An`a*bap"tist*ry, n.

Defn: The doctrine, system, or practice, of Anabaptists. [R.]
Thus died this imaginary king; and Anabaptistry was suppressed in
Munster. Pagitt.

ANABAPTIZE
An`a*bap*tize", v. t. Etym: [Gr. Baptize.]

Defn: To rebaptize; to rechristen; also, to rename. [R.] Whitlock.

ANABAS
An"a*bas, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living long
out of water, and of making their way on land for considerable
distances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes.

ANABASIS
A*nab"a*sis, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A journey or expedition up from the coast, like that of the
younger Cyrus into Central Asia, described by Xenophon in his work
called "The Anabasis."
The anabasis of Napoleon. De Quincey.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The first period, or increase, of a disease; augmentation.
[Obs.]

ANABATIC
An`a*bat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to anabasis; as, an anabatic fever. [Obs.]

ANABOLIC
An`a*bol"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to anabolism; an anabolic changes, or processes,
more or less constructive in their nature.

ANABOLISM
A*nab"o*lism, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The constructive metabolism of the body, as distinguished from
katabolism.

ANABRANCH
An"a*branch, n. [Anastomosing + branch.]

Defn: A branch of a river that reënters, or anastomoses with, the
main stream; also, less properly, a branch which loses itself in
sandy soil. [Australia]

Such branches of a river as after separation reunite, I would term
anastomosing branches; or, if a word might be coined, anabranches,
and the islands they form branch islands.
Col. Jackson.

ANACAMPTIC
An`a*camp"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Reflecting of reflected; as, an anacamptic sound (and echo).

Note: The word was formerly applied to that part of optics which
treats of reflection; the same as what is now called catoptric. See
Catoptrics.

ANACAMPTICALLY
An`a*camp"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By reflection; as, echoes are sound produced anacamptically.
Hutton.

ANACAMPTICS
An`a*camp"tics, n.

1. The science of reflected light, now called catoptrics.

2. The science of reflected sounds.

ANACANTHINI; ANACANTHS
An`a*can"thi*ni, An"a*canths, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of teleostean fishes destitute of spiny fin-rays, as
the cod.

ANACANTHOUS
An`a*can"thous, a.

Defn: Spineless, as certain fishes.

ANACARDIACEOUS
An`a*car"di*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a family, or order, of plants of
which the cashew tree is the type, and the species of sumac are well
known examples.

ANACARDIC
An`a*car"dic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the cashew nut; as, anacardic
acid.

ANACARDIUM
An`a*car"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the cashew tree. See Cashew.

ANACATHARTIC
An`a*ca*thar"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. i. e., by vomiting; Cathartic.]
(Med.)

Defn: Producing vomiting or expectoration.
 -- n.

Defn: An anacatharic medicine; an expectorant or an emetic.

ANACHARIS
An*ach"a*ris, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A fresh-water weed of the frog's-bit family (Hydrocharidaceæ),
native to America. Transferred to England it became an obstruction to
navigation. Called also waterweed and water thyme.

ANACHORET; ANACHORETICAL
An*ach"o*ret, n. An*ach`o*ret"ic*al, a.

Defn: See Anchoret, Anchoretic. [Obs.]

ANACHORISM
An*ach"o*rism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An error in regard to the place of an event or a thing; a
referring something to a wrong place. [R.]

ANACHRONIC; ANACHRONICAL
An`a*chron"ic, An`a*chron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Characterized by, or involving, anachronism; anachronistic.

ANACHRONISM
An*ach"ro*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. anachronisme.]

Defn: A misplacing or error in the order of time; an error in
chronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each other,
esp. one by which an event is placed too early; falsification of
chronological relation.

ANACHRONISTIC
An*ach`ro*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Erroneous in date; containing an anachronism. T. Warton.

ANACHRONIZE
An*ach"ro*nize, v. t. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To refer to, or put into, a wrong time. [R.] Lowell.

ANACHRONOUS
An*ach"ro*nous, a.

Defn: Containing an anachronism; anachronistic.
 -- An*ach"ro*nous*ly, adv.

ANACLASTIC
An`a*clas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Opt.)

Defn: Produced by the refraction of light, as seen through water; as,
anaclastic curves.

2. Springing back, as the bottom of an anaclastic glass. Anaclastic
glass, a glass or phial, shaped like an inverted funnel, and with a
very thin convex bottom. By sucking out a little air, the bottom
springs into a concave form with a smart crack; and by breathing or
blowing gently into the orifice, the bottom, with a like noise,
springs into its former convex form.

ANACLASTICS
An`a*clas"tics, n. (Opt.)

Defn: That part of optics which treats of the refraction of light; --
commonly called dioptrics. Encyc. Brit.

ANACOENOSIS
An`a*coe*no"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which a speaker appeals to his hearers or opponents
for their opinion on the point in debate. Walker.

ANACOLUTHIC
An`a*co*lu"thic, a.

Defn: Lacking grammatical sequence.
 -- An`a*co*lu"thic*al*ly, adv.

ANACOLUTHON
An`a*co*lu"thon, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A want of grammatical sequence or coherence in a sentence; an
instance of a change of construction in a sentence so that the latter
part does not syntactically correspond with the first part.

ANACONDA
An`a*con"da, n. Etym: [Of Ceylonese origin] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large South American snake of the Boa family (Eunectes
murinus), which lives near rivers, and preys on birds and small
mammals. The name is also applied to a similar large serpent (Python
tigris) of Ceylon.

ANACREONTIC
A*nac`re*on"tic, a. Etym: [L. Anacreonticus.]

Defn: Pertaining to, after the manner of, or in the meter of, the
Greek poet Anacreon; amatory and convivial. De Quincey.

ANACREONTIC
A*nac`re*on"tic, n.

Defn: A poem after the manner of Anacreon; a sprightly little poem in
praise of love and wine.

ANACROTIC
An`a*crot"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to anachronism.

ANACROTISM
A*nac"ro*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A secondary notch in the pulse curve, obtained in a
sphygmographic tracing.

ANACRUSIS
An`a*cru"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: A prefix of one or two unaccented syllables to a verse properly
beginning with an accented syllable.

ANADEM
An"a*dem, n. Etym: [L. anadema, Gr.

Defn: A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath. Drayton. Tennyson.

ANADIPLOSIS
An`a*di*plo"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A repetition of the last word or any prominent word in a
sentence or clause, at the beginning of the next, with an adjunct
idea; as, "He retained his virtues amidst all his misfortunes --
misfortunes which no prudence could foresee or prevent."

ANADROM
An"a*drom, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anadrome.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish that leaves the sea and ascends rivers.

ANADROMOUS
A*nad"ro*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Ascending rivers from the sea, at certain seasons, for
breeding, as the salmon, shad, etc.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Tending upwards; -- said of terns in which the lowest secondary
segments are on the upper side of the branch of the central stem. D.
C. Eaton.

ANAEMIA
A*næ"mi*a, a. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid condition in which the blood is deficient in quality
or in quantity.

ANAEMIC
A*næm"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anæmia.

ANAEROBIA; ANAEROBES
An*a`ër*o"bi*a, An*a"ër*obes, n. pl. [NL. anaerobia; an-not + aëro- +
Gr. life.] (Bacteriol.)

Defn: Anaërobic bacteria. They are called facultative anaërobia when
able to live either in the presence or absence of free oxygen;
obligate, or obligatory, anaërobia when they thrive only in its
absence.

ANAEROBIC
An*a`ë*rob"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to, or like, anaërobies; araërobiotic.

ANAEROBIES
An*a"ër*o*bies, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Microörganisms which do not require oxygen, but are killed by
it. Sternberg.

ANAEROBIOTIC
An*a`ër*o*bi*ot"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Related to, or of the nature of, anaërobies.

ANAESTHESIA
An`æs*the"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. anesthésie. See Æsthetics.]
(Med.)

Defn: Entire or partial loss or absence of feeling or sensation; a
state of general or local insensibility produced by disease or by the
inhalation or application of an anæsthetic.

ANAESTHESIS
An`æs*the"sis, n.

Defn: See Anæsthesia.

ANAESTHETIC
An`æs*thet"ic, a. (Med.)
(a) Capable of rendering insensible; as, anæsthetic agents.
(b) Characterized by, or connected with, insensibility; as, an
anæsthetic effect or operation.

ANAESTHETIC
An`æs*thet"ic, n. (Med.)

Defn: That which produces insensibility to pain, as chloroform,
ether, etc.

ANAESTHETIZATION
An*æs`the*ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: The process of anæsthetizing; also, the condition of the
nervous system induced by anæsthetics.

ANAESTHETIZE
An*æs"the*tize, v. t. (Med.)

Defn: To render insensible by an anæsthetic. Encyc. Brit.

ANAGLYPH
An"a*glyph, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Any sculptured, chased, or embossed ornament worked in low
relief, as a cameo.

ANAGLYPHIC
An`a*glyph"ic, n.

Defn: Work chased or embossed relief.

ANAGLYPHIC; ANAGLYPHICAL
An`a*glyph"ic, An`a*glyph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the art of chasing or embossing in relief;
anaglyptic; -- opposed to diaglyptic or sunk work.

ANAGLYPTIC
An`a*glyp"tic, a. Etym: [L. anaglypticus, Gr. Anaglyph.]

Defn: Relating to the art of carving, enchasing, or embossing in low
relief.

ANAGLYPTICS
An`a*glyp"tics, n.

Defn: The art of carving in low relief, embossing, etc.

ANAGLYPTOGRAPH
An`a*glyp"to*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An instrument by which a correct engraving of any embossed
object, such as a medal or cameo, can be executed. Brande & C.

ANAGLYPTOGRAPHIC
An`a*glyp`to*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anaglyptography; as, analyptographic
engraving.

ANAGLYPTOGRAPHY
An`a*glyp*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The art of copying works in relief, or of engraving as to give
the subject an embossed or raised appearance; -- used in representing
coins, bas-reliefs, etc.

ANAGNORISIS
An`ag*nor"i*sis, n. Etym: [Latinized fr. Gr.

Defn: The unfolding or dénouement. [R.] De Quincey.

ANAGOGE
An`a*go"ge, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. An elevation of mind to things celestial.

2. The spiritual meaning or application; esp. the application of the
types and allegories of the Old Testament to subjects of the New.

ANAGOGIC; ANAGOGICAL
An`a*gog"ic, An`a*gog"ic*al, a.

Defn: Mystical; having a secondary spiritual meaning; as, the rest of
the Sabbath, in an anagogical sense, signifies the repose of the
saints in heaven; an anagogical explication.
 -- An`a*gog"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANAGOGICS
An`a*gog"ics, n. pl.

Defn: Mystical interpretations or studies, esp. of the Scriptures. L.
Addison.

ANAGOGY
An"a*go`gy, n.

Defn: Same as Anagoge.

ANAGRAM
An"a*gram, n. Etym: [F. anagramme, LL. anagramma, fr. Gr. Graphic.]

Defn: Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in its
usual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another by
the transposition of its letters. Thus Galenus becomes angelus;
William Noy (attorney-general to Charles I., and a laborious man) may
be turned into I moyl in law.

ANAGRAM
An"a*gram, v. t.

Defn: To anagrammatize.
Some of these anagramed his name, Benlowes, into Benevolus.
Warburton.

ANAGRAMMATIC; ANAGRAMMATICAL
An`a*gram*mat"ic, An`a*gram*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
anagramtique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or making, anagram.
 -- An`a*gram*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANAGRAMMATISM
An`a*gram"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. anagrammatisme.]

Defn: The act or practice of making anagrams. Camden.

ANAGRAMMATIST
An`a*gram"ma*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anagrammatiste.]

Defn: A maker anagrams.

ANAGRAMMATIZE
An`a*gram"ma*tize, v. t. Etym: [Gr. anagrammatiser.]

Defn: To transpose, as the letters of a word, so as to form an
anagram. Cudworth.

ANAGRAPH
An"a*graph, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An inventory; a record. [Obs.] Knowles.

ANAKIM; ANAKS
An"a*kim, A"naks, n. pl. Etym: [Heb.] (Bibl.)

Defn: A race of giants living in Palestine.

ANAL
A"nal, a. Etym: [From Anus.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin or
glands.

ANALCIME
A*nal"cime, n. Etym: [Gr. analcime.] (Min.)

Defn: A white or flesh-red mineral, of the zeolite, occurring in
isometric crystals. By friction, it acquires a weak electricity;
hence its name.

ANALCITE
A*nal"cite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Analcime.

ANALECTIC
An`a*lec"tic, a.

Defn: Relating to analects; made up of selections; as, an analectic
magazine.

ANALECTS; ANALECTA
An"a*lects, An`a*lec"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A collection of literary fragments.

ANALEMMA
An`a*lem"ma, n. Etym: [L. analemma a sun dial on a pedestal, showing
the latitude and meridian of a place, Gr.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: An orthographic projection of the sphere on the plane of the
meridian, the eye being supposed at an infinite distance, and in the
east or west point of the horizon.

2. An instrument of wood or brass, on which this projection of the
sphere is made, having a movable horizon or cursor; -- formerly much
used in solving some common astronomical problems.

3. A scale of the sun's declination for each day of the year, drawn
across the torrid zone on an artificial terrestrial globe.

ANALEPSIS; ANALEPSY
An"a*lep"sis, An"a*lep"sy, Etym: [Gr. Analemma.] (Med.)
(a) Recovery of strength after sickness.
(b) A species of epileptic attack, originating from gastric disorder.

ANALEPTIC
An"a*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. analeptique. See Analepsis.] (Med.)

Defn: Restorative; giving strength after disease.
 -- n.

Defn: A restorative.

ANALGEN; ANALGENE
An*al"gen, An*al"gene, n. [Gr.  painless.]

Defn: A crystalline compound used as an antipyretic and analgesic,
employed chiefly in rheumatism and neuralgia. It is a complex
derivative of quinoline.

ANALGESIA
An`al*ge"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Absence of sensibility to pain. Quain.

ANALLAGMATIC
An`al*lag*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Math.)

Defn: Not changed in form by inversion. Anallagmatic curves, a class
of curves of the fourth degree which have certain peculiar relations
to circles; -- sometimes called bicircular quartics.
 -- Anallagmatic surfaces, a certain class of surfaces of the fourth
degree.

ANALLANTOIC
An`al*lan*to"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Without, or not developing, an allantois.

ANALLANTOIDEA
An`al*lan*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. allantoidea.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of Vertebrata in which no allantois is developed.
It includes amphibians, fishes, and lower forms.

ANALOGAL
A*nal"o*gal, a.

Defn: Analogous. [Obs.] Donne.

ANALOGIC
An`a*log"ic, a. Etym: [See Analogous.]

Defn: Of or belonging to analogy. Geo. Eliot.

ANALOGICAL
An`a*log"ic*al, a.

1. Founded on, or of the nature of, analogy; expressing or implying
analogy.
When a country which has sent out colonies is termed the mother
country, the expression is analogical. J. S. Mill.

2. Having analogy; analogous. Sir M. Hale.

ANALOGICALLY
An`a*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an analogical sense; in accordance with analogy; by way of
similitude.
A prince is analogically styled a pilot, being to the state as a
pilot is to the vessel. Berkeley.

ANALOGICALNESS
An`a*log"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being analogical.

ANALOGISM
A*nal"o*gism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. Logic

Defn: an argument from the cause to the effect; an a priori argument.
Johnson.

2. Investigation of things by the analogy they bear to each other.
Crabb.

ANALOGIST
A*nal"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who reasons from analogy, or represent, by analogy. Cheyne.

ANALOGIZE
A*nal"o*gize, v. i.

Defn: To employ, or reason by, analogy.

ANALOGON
A*nal"o*gon, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Analogue.

ANALOGOUS
A*nal"o*gous, a. Etym: [L. analogous, Gr. Logic.]

Defn: Having analogy; corresponding to something else; bearing some
resemblance or proportion; -- often followed by to.
Analogous tendencies in arts and manners. De Quincey.
Decay of public spirit, which may be considered analogous to natural
death. J. H. Newman.
nalogous pole (Pyroelect.), that pole of a crystal which becomes
positively electrified when heated.

Syn.
 -- Correspondent; similar; like.
 -- A*nal"o gous*ly, adv.
 -- A*nal"o*gous*ness, n.

ANALOGUE
An"a*logue, n. Etym: [F.

1. That which is analogous to, or corresponds with, some other thing.
The vexatious tyranny of the individual despot meets its analogue in
the insolent tyranny of the many. I. Taylor.

2. (Philol.)

Defn: A word in one language corresponding with one in another; an
analogous term; as, the Latin "pater" is the analogue of the English
"father."

3. (Nat. Hist.)
(a) An organ which is equivalent in its functions to a different
organ in another species or group, or even in the same group; as, the
gill of a fish is the analogue of a lung in a quadruped, although the
two are not of like structural relations.
(b) A species in one genus or group having its characters parallel,
one by one, with those of another group.
(c) A species or genus in one country closely related to a species of
the same genus, or a genus of the same group, in another: such
species are often called representative species, and such genera,
representative genera. Dana.

ANALOGY
A*nal"o*gy, n.; pl. Analogies. Etym: [L. analogia, Gr. analogie. See
Analogous.]

1. A resemblance of relations; an agreement or likeness between
things in some circumstances or effects, when the things are
otherwise entirely different. Thus, learning enlightens the mind,
because it is to the mind what light is to the eye, enabling it to
discover things before hidden.

Note: Followed by between, to, or with; as, there is an analogy
between these objects, or one thing has an analogy to or with
another.

Note: Analogy is very commonly used to denote similarity or essential
resemblance; but its specific meaning is a similarity of relations,
and in this consists the difference between the argument from example
and that from analogy. In the former, we argue from the mere
similarity of two things; in the latter, from the similarity of their
relations. Karslake.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A relation or correspondence in function, between organs or
parts which are decidedly different.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: Proportion; equality of ratios.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: Conformity of words to the genius, structure, or general rules
of a language; similarity of origin, inflection, or principle of
pronunciation, and the like, as opposed to pl. analogies. Johnson.

ANALYSE; ANALYSER
An"a*lyse, v., An"a*ly`ser, n., etc.

Defn: Same as Analyze, Analyzer, etc.

ANALYSIS
A*nal"y*sis, n.; pl. Analyses. Etym: [Gr. Loose.]

1. A resolution of anything, whether an object of the senses or of
the intellect, into its constituent or original elements; an
examination of the component parts of a subject, each separately, as
the words which compose a sentence, the tones of a tune, or the
simple propositions which enter into an argument. It is opposed to
synthesis.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The separation of a compound substance, by chemical processes,
into its constituents, with a view to ascertain either (a) what
elements it contains, or (b) how much of each element is present. The
former is called qualitative, and the latter quantitative analysis.

3. (Logic)

Defn: The tracing of things to their source, and the resolving of
knowledge into its original principles.

4. (Math.)

Defn: The resolving of problems by reducing the conditions that are
in them to equations.

5.
(a) A syllabus, or table of the principal heads of a discourse,
disposed in their natural order.
(b) A brief, methodical illustration of the principles of a science.
In this sense it is nearly synonymous with synopsis.

6. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: The process of ascertaining the name of a species, or its place
in a system of classification, by means of an analytical table or
key. Ultimate, Proximate, Qualitative, Quantitative, and Volumetric
analysis. (Chem.) See under Ultimate, Proximate, Qualitative, etc.

ANALYST
An"a*lyst, n. Etym: [F. analyste. See Analysis.]

Defn: One who analyzes; formerly, one skilled in algebraical
geometry; now commonly, one skilled in chemical analysis.

ANALYTIC; ANALYTICAL
An`a*lyt"ic, An`a*lyt"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. analytique. See Analysis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to analysis; resolving into elements or
constituent parts; as, an analytical experiment; analytic reasoning;
-- opposed to synthetic. Analytical or coördinate geometry. See under
Geometry.
 -- Analytic language, a noninflectional language or one not
characterized by grammatical endings.
 -- Analytical table (Nat. Hist.), a table in which the
characteristics of the species or other groups are arranged so as to
facilitate the determination of their names.

ANALYTICALLY
An`a*lyt"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an analytical manner.

ANALYTICS
An`a*lyt"ics, n.

Defn: The science of analysis.

ANALYZABLE
An"a*ly`za*ble, a.

Defn: That may be analyzed.

ANALYZATION
An`a*ly*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of analyzing, or separating into constituent parts;
analysis.

ANALYZE
An"a*lyze, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Analyzed; p. pr. & vb. n. Analyzing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. analyser. See Analysis.]

Defn: To subject to analysis; to resolve (anything complex) into its
elements; to separate into the constituent parts, for the purpose of
an examination of each separately; to examine in such a manner as to
ascertain the elements or nature of the thing examined; as, to
analyze a fossil substance; to analyze a sentence or a word; to
analyze an action to ascertain its morality.
No one, I presume, can analyze the sensations of pleasure or pain.
Darwin.

ANALYZER
An"a*ly`zer, n.

1. One who, or that which, analyzes.

2. (Opt.)

Defn: The part of a polariscope which receives the light after
polarization, and exhibits its properties.

ANAMESE
An`a*mese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Anam, to southeastern Asia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Anam.

ANAMNESIS
An`am*ne"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A recalling to mind; recollection.

ANAMNESTIC
An`am*nes"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Aiding the memory; as, anamnestic remedies.

ANAMNIOTIC
An*am`ni*ot"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Without, or not developing, an amnion.

ANAMORPHISM
An`a*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A distorted image.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A gradual progression from one type to another, generally
ascending. Huxley.

ANAMORPHOSCOPE
An`a*mor"pho*scope, n. [Anamorphosis + -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for restoring a picture or image distorted by
anamorphosis to its normal proportions. It usually consists of a
cylindrical mirror.

ANAMORPHOSIS
An`a*mor"pho*sis, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Persp.)

Defn: A distorted or monstrous projection or representation of an
image on a plane or curved surface, which, when viewed from a certain
point, or as reflected from a curved mirror or through a polyhedron,
appears regular and in proportion; a deformation of an image.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Anamorphism, 2.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A morbid or monstrous development, or change of form, or
degeneration.

ANAMORPHOSY
An`a*mor"pho*sy, n.

Defn: Same as Anamorphosis.

ANAN
A*nan", interj. Etym: [See Anon.]

Defn: An expression equivalent to What did you say Sir Eh [Obs.]
Shak.

ANANAS
A*na"nas, n. Etym: [Sp. ananas, from the native American name.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The pineapple (Ananassa sativa).

ANANDROUS
An*an"drous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of stamen

ANANGULAR
An*an"gu*lar, a. Etym: [Gr. angular.]

Defn: Containing no angle. [R.]

ANANTHEROUS
An*an"ther*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. anther.] (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of anthers. Gray.

ANANTHOUS
An*an"thous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of flowers; flowerless.

ANAPAEST; ANAPAESTIC
An`a*pæst, An`a*pæs"tic.

Defn: Same as Anapest, Anapestic.

ANAPEST
An"a*pest, n. Etym: [L. anapaestus, Gr. i.e., a dactyl reserved, or,
as it were, struck back; fr.

1. (Pros.)

Defn: A metrical foot consisting of three syllables, the first two
short, or unaccented, the last long, or accented; the reverse of the
dactyl. In Latin d, and in English in-ter-vene, are examples of
anapests.

2. A verse composed of such feet.

ANAPESTIC
An`a*pes"tic, a. Etym: [L. anapaesticus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to an anapest; consisting of an anapests; as, an
anapestic meter, foot, verse.
 -- n.

Defn: Anapestic measure or verse.

ANAPESTICAL
An`a*pes"tic*al, a.

Defn: Anapestic.

ANAPHORA
A*naph"o*ra, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A repetition of a word or of words at the beginning of two or
more successive clauses.

ANAPHRODISIA
An*aph`ro*dis"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Absence of sexual appetite.

ANAPHRODISIAC
An*aph`ro*dis"i*ac, a. & n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antaphrodisiac. Dunglison.

ANAPHRODITIC
An*aph`ro*dit"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Produced without concourse of sexes.

ANAPLASTIC
An`a*plas"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anaplasty.

ANAPLASTY
An`a*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Gr. anaplastie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The art of operation of restoring lost parts or the normal
shape by the use of healthy tissue.

ANAPLEROTIC
An`a*ple*rot"ic, a. Etym: [L. anapleroticus, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Filling up; promoting granulation of wounds or ulcers.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy which promotes such granulation.

ANAPNOGRAPH
A*nap"no*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: A form of spirometer.

ANAPNOIC
An`ap*no"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to respiration.

ANAPODEICTIC
An*ap`o*deic"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. Apodeictic.]

Defn: Not apodeictic; undemonstrable. [R.]

ANAPOPHYSIS
An`a*poph"y*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: An accessory process in many lumbar vertebræ.

ANAPTOTIC
An`ap*tot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having lost, or tending to lose, inflections by phonetic decay;
as, anaptotic languages.

ANAPTYCHUS
An*ap"ty*chus, n.; pl. Anaptichi. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of a pair of shelly plates found in some cephalopods, as
the ammonites.

ANARCH
An"arch, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt. Milton.
Imperial anarchs doubling human woes. Byron.

ANARCHAL
A*nar"chal, a.

Defn: Lawless; anarchical. [R.]
We are in the habit of calling those bodies of men anarchal which are
in a state of effervescence. Landor.

ANARCHIC; ANARCHICAL
A*nar"chic, A*nar"chic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. anarchique.]

Defn: Pertaining to anarchy; without rule or government; in political
confusion; tending to produce anarchy; as, anarchic despotism;
anarchical opinions.

ANARCHISM
An"arch*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anarchisme.]

Defn: The doctrine or practice of anarchists.

ANARCHIST
An"arch*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anarchiste.]

Defn: An anarch; one who advocates anarchy of aims at the overthrow
of civil government.

ANARCHIZE
An"arch*ize, v. t.

Defn: To reduce to anarchy.

ANARCHY
An"arch*y, n. Etym: [Gr. anarchie. See Anarch.]

1. Absence of government; the state of society where there is no law
or supreme power; a state of lawlessness; political confusion.
Spread anarchy and terror all around. Cowper.

2. Hence, confusion or disorder, in general.
There being then . . . an anarchy, as I may term it, in authors and
their reFuller.

ANARTHROPODA
An`ar*throp"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -poda. See Anarthrous.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the divisions of Articulata in which there are no
jointed legs, as the annelids; -- opposed to Arthropoda.

ANARTHROPODOUS
An`ar*throp"o*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having no jointed legs; pertaining to Anarthropoda.

ANARTHROUS
An*ar"throus, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Gr. Gram.)

Defn: Used without the article; as, an anarthrous substantive.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without joints, or having the joints indistinct, as some
insects.

ANAS
A"nas, n. Etym: [L., duck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certain
species of fresh-water ducks.

ANASARCA
An`a*sar"ca, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue; an effusion of
serum into the cellular substance, occasioning a soft, pale,
inelastic swelling of the skin.

ANASARCOUS
An`a*sar"cous, a.

Defn: Belonging, or affected by, anasarca, or dropsy; dropsical.
Wiseman.

ANASEISMIC
An`a*seis"mic, a. [Cf. Gr.  a shaking up and down.]

Defn: Moving up and down; -- said of earthquake shocks.

ANASTALTIC
An`a*stal"tic, a. & n. Etym: [Gr. fitted for checking, fr. (Med.)

Defn: Styptic. [Obs.] Coxe.

ANASTATE
An"a*state, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: One of a series of substances formed, in secreting cells, by
constructive or anabolic processes, in the production of protoplasm;
-- opposed to katastate. Foster.

ANASTATIC
An`a*stat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to a process or a style of printing from characters
in relief on zinc plates.

Note: In this process the letterpress, engraving, or design of any
kind is transferred to a zinc plate; the parts not covered with ink
are eaten out, leaving a facsimile in relief to be printed from.

ANASTIGMATIC
An*as`tig*mat"ic, a. [Pref. an-not + astigmatic.] (Optics)

Defn: Not astigmatic; --said esp. of a lens system which consists of
a converging lens and a diverging lens of equal and opposite
astigmatism but different focal lengths, and sensibly free from
astigmatism.

ANASTOMOSE
A*nas"to*mose, v. i. [imp. p. p. Anastomozed; p. pr. Anastomosing.]
Etym: [Cf. F. anastomoser, fr. anastomose. See Anastomosis.] (Anat. &
Bot.)

Defn: To inosculate; to intercommunicate by anastomosis, as the
arteries and veins.
The ribbing of the leaf, and the anastomosing network of its vessels.
I. Taylor.

ANASTOMOSIS
A*nas`to*mo"sis, n.; pl. Anastomoses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
anastomose.] (Anat. & Bot.)

Defn: The inosculation of vessels, or intercommunication between two
or more vessels or nerves, as the cross communication between
arteries or veins.

ANASTOMOTIC
A*nas`to*mot"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anastomosis.

ANASTROPHE
A*nas"tro*phe, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet. & Gram.)

Defn: An inversion of the natural order of words; as, echoed the
hills, for, the hills echoed.

ANATHEMA
A*nath"e*ma, n.; pl. Anathemas. Etym: [L. anath, fr. Gr. anath, fr.
Gr. Thesis.]

1. A ban or curse pronounced with religious solemnity by
ecclesiastical authority, and accompanied by excommunication. Hence:
Denunciation of anything as accursed.
[They] denounce anathemas against unbelievers. Priestley.

2. An imprecation; a curse; a malediction.
Finally she fled to London followed by the anathemas of both
[families]. Thackeray.

3. Any person or thing anathematized, or cursed by ecclesiastical
authority.
The Jewish nation were an anathema destined to destruction. St. Paul
. . . says he could wish, to save them from it, to become an
anathema, and be destroyed himself. Locke.
Anathema Maranatha Etym: (see 1 Cor. xvi. 22), an expression commonly
considered as a highly intensified form of anathema. Maran atha is
now considered as a separate sentence, meaning, "Our Lord cometh."

ANATHEMATIC; ANATHEMATICAL
A*nath`e*mat"ic, A*nath`e*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an anathema.
 -- A*nath`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANATHEMATISM
A*nath"e*ma*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. anathématisme.]

Defn: Anathematization. [Obs.]
We find a law of Justinian forbidding anathematisms to be pronounced
against the Jewish Hellenists. J. Taylor.

ANATHEMATIZATION
A*nath`e*ma*ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [LL. anathematisatio.]

Defn: The act of anathematizing, or denouncing as accursed;
imprecation. Barrow.

ANATHEMATIZE
A*nath"e*ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anathematized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anathematizing.] Etym: [L. anathematizare, Gr. anathématiser.]

Defn: To pronounce an anathema against; to curse. Hence: To condemn
publicly as something accursed. Milton.

ANATHEMATIZER
A*nath"e*ma*ti`zer, n.

Defn: One who pronounces an anathema. Hammond.

ANATIFA
A*nat"i*fa, n.; pl. Anatifæ. Etym: [NL., contr. fr. anatifera. See
Anatiferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal of the barnacle tribe, of the genus Lepas, having a
fleshy stem or peduncle; a goose barnacle. See Cirripedia.

Note: The term Anatifæ, in the plural, is often used for the whole
group of pedunculated cirripeds.

ANATIFER
A*nat"i*fer,, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Anatifa.

ANATIFEROUS
An`a*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. anas, anatis, a duck + -ferous.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing ducks; -- applied to Anatifæ, under the absurd notion
of their turning into ducks or geese. See Barnacle.

ANATINE
An"a*tine, a. Etym: [L. anatinus, fr. anas, anatis, a duck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ducks; ducklike.

ANATOCISM
A*nat"o*cism, n. Etym: [L. anatocismus, Gr. (Law)

Defn: Compound interest. [R.] Bouvier.

ANATOMIC; ANATOMICAL
An`a*tom"ic, An`a*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. anatomicus, Gr. anatomique.
See Anatomy.]

Defn: Of or relating to anatomy or dissection; as, the anatomic art;
anatomical observations. Hume.

ANATOMICALLY
An`a*tom"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anatomical manner; by means of dissection.

ANATOMISM
A*nat"o*mism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anatomisme.]

1. The application of the principles of anatomy, as in art.
The stretched and vivid anatomism of their [i. e., the French] great
figure painters. The London Spectator.

2. The doctrine that the anatomical structure explains all the
phenomena of the organism or of animal life.

ANATOMIST
A*nat"o*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anatomiste.]

Defn: One who is skilled in the art of anatomy, or dissection.

ANATOMIZATION
A*nat`o*mi*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of anatomizing.

ANATOMIZE
A*nat"o*mize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anatomized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anatomizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. anatomiser.]

1. To dissect; to cut in pieces, as an animal vegetable body, for the
purpose of displaying or examining the structure and use of the
several parts.

2. To discriminate minutely or carefully; to analyze.
If we anatomize all other reasonings of this nature, we shall find
that they are founded on the relation of cause and effect. Hume.

ANATOMIZER
A*nat"o*mi`zer, n.

Defn: A dissector.

ANATOMY
A*nat"o*my, n.; pl. Anatomies. Etym: [F. anatomie, L. anatomia, Gr.

1. The art of dissecting, or artificially separating the different
parts of any organized body, to discover their situation, structure,
and economy; dissection.

2. The science which treats of the structure of organic bodies;
anatomical structure or organization.
Let the muscles be well inserted and bound together, according to the
knowledge of them which is given us by anatomy. Dryden.

Note: "Animal anatomy" is sometimes called zomy; "vegetable anatomy,"
phytotomy; "human anatomy," anthropotomy. Comparative anatomy
compares the structure of different kinds and classes of animals.

3. A treatise or book on anatomy.

4. The act of dividing anything, corporeal or intellectual, for the
purpose of examining its parts; analysis; as, the anatomy of a
discourse.

5. A skeleton; anything anatomized or dissected, or which has the
appearance of being so.
The anatomy of a little child, representing all parts thereof, is
accounted a greater rarity than the skeleton of a man in full
stature. Fuller.
They brought one Pinch, a hungry, lean-faced villain, A mere anatomy.
Shak.

ANATREPTIC
An`a*trep"tic, a. Etym: [overturning, fr.

Defn: Overthrowing; defeating; -- applied to Plato's refutative
dialogues. Enfield.

ANATRON
An"a*tron, n. Etym: [F. anatron, natron, Sp. anatron, natron, fr. Ar.
al-natr. See Natron, Niter.] [Obs.]

1. Native carbonate of soda; natron.

2. Glass gall or sandiver.

3. Saltpeter. Coxe. Johnson.

ANATROPAL; ANATROPOUS
A*nat"ro*pal, A*nat"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the ovule inverted at an early period in its
development, so that the chalaza is as the apparent apex; -- opposed
to orthotropous. Gray.

ANATTO
A*nat"to, n.

Defn: Same as Annotto.

ANBURY; AMBURY
An"bur*y, Am"bur*y, n. Etym: [AS. ampre, ompre, a crooked swelling
vein: cf. Prov. E. amper a tumor with inflammation. Cf. the first
syllable in agnail, and berry a fruit.]

1. (Far.)

Defn: A soft tumor or bloody wart on horses or oxen.

2. A disease of the roots of turnips, etc.; -- called also fingers
and toes.

ANCE
*ance. Etym: [F. -ance, fr. L. -antia and also fr. -entia.]

Defn: A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as,
assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.

Note: All recently adopted words of this class take either -ance or -
ence, according to the Latin spelling.

-ANCE
-ance. [F. -ance, fr. L. -antia and also fr. -entia.]

Defn: A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as,
assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.

 All recently adopted words of this class take either -ance or -ence,
according to the Latin spelling.

ANCESTOR
An"ces*tor, n. Etym: [OE. ancestre, auncestre, also ancessour; the
first forms fr. OF. ancestre, F. ancêtre, fr. the L. nom. antessor
one who goes before; the last form fr. OF. ancessor, fr. L. acc.
antecessorem, fr. antecedere to go before; ante before + cedere to
go. See Cede, and cf. Antecessor.]

1. One from whom a person is descended, whether on the father's or
mother's side, at any distance of time; a progenitor; a fore father.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: An earlier type; a progenitor; as, this fossil animal is
regarded as the ancestor of the horse.

3. (Law)

Defn: One from whom an estate has descended; -- the correlative of
heir.

ANCESTORIAL
An`ces*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Ancestral. Grote.

ANCESTORIALLY
An`ces*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: With regard to ancestors.

ANCESTRAL
An*ces"tral, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, derived from, or possessed by, an ancestor
or ancestors; as, an ancestral estate. "Ancestral trees." Hemans.

ANCESTRESS
An"ces*tress, n.

Defn: A female ancestor.

ANCESTRY
An"ces*try, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. ancesserie. See Ancestor.]

1. Condition as to ancestors; ancestral lineage; hence, birth or
honorable descent.
Title and ancestry render a good man more illustrious, but an ill one
more contemptible. Addison.

2. A series of ancestors or progenitors; lineage, or those who
compose the line of natural descent.

ANCHOR
An"chor, n. Etym: [OE. anker, AS. ancor, oncer, L. ancora, sometimes
spelt anchora, fr. Gr. angle: cf. F. ancre. See Angle, n.]

1. A iron instrument which is attached to a ship by a cable (rope or
chain), and which, being cast overboard, lays hold of the earth by a
fluke or hook and thus retains the ship in a particular station.

Note: The common anchor consists of a straight bar called a shank,
having at one end a transverse bar called a stock, above which is a
ring for the cable, and at the other end the crown, from which branch
out two or more arms with flukes, forming with the shank a suitable
angle to enter the ground.

Note: Formerly the largest and strongest anchor was the sheet anchor
(hence, Fig., best hope or last refuge), called also waist anchor.
Now the bower and the sheet anchor are usually alike. Then came the
best bower and the small bower (so called from being carried on the
bows). The stream anchor is one fourth the weight of the bower
anchor. Kedges or kedge anchors are light anchors used in warping.

2. Any instrument or contrivance serving a purpose like that of a
ship's anchor, as an arrangement of timber to hold a dam fast; a
contrivance to hold the end of a bridge cable, or other similar part;
a contrivance used by founders to hold the core of a mold in place.

3. Fig.: That which gives stability or security; that on which we
place dependence for safety.
Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul. Heb. vi. 19.

4. (Her.)

Defn: An emblem of hope.

5. (Arch.)
(a) A metal tie holding adjoining parts of a building together.
(b) Carved work, somewhat resembling an anchor or arrowhead; -- a
part of the ornaments of certain moldings. It is seen in the echinus,
or egg-and-anchor (called also egg-and-dart, egg-and-tongue)
ornament.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the anchor-shaped spicules of certain sponges; also, one
of the calcareous spinules of certain Holothurians, as in species of
Synapta. Anchor ice. See under Ice.
 -- Anchor ring. (Math.) Same as Annulus, 2 (b).
 -- Anchor stock (Naut.), the crossbar at the top of the shank at
right angles to the arms.
 -- The anchor comes home, when it drags over the bottom as the ship
drifts.
 -- Foul anchor, the anchor when it hooks, or is entangled with,
another anchor, or with a cable or wreck, or when the slack cable
entangled.
 -- The anchor is acockbill, when it is suspended perpendicularly
from the cathead, ready to be let go.
 -- The anchor is apeak, when the cable is drawn in do tight as to
bring to ship directly over it.
 -- The anchor is atrip, or aweigh, when it is lifted out of the
ground.
 -- The anchor is awash, when it is hove up to the surface of the
water.
 -- At anchor, anchored.
 -- To back an anchor, to increase the holding power by laying down a
small anchor ahead of that by which the ship rides, with the cable
fastened to the crown of the latter to prevent its coming home.
 -- To cast anchor, to drop or let go an anchor to keep a ship at
rest.
 -- To cat the anchor, to hoist the anchor to the cathead and pass
the ring-stopper.
 -- To fish the anchor, to hoist the flukes to their resting place
(called the bill-boards), and pass the shank painter.
 -- To weigh anchor, to heave or raise the anchor so as to sail away.

ANCHOR
An"chor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anchored; p. pr. & vb. n. Anchoring.]
Etym: [Cf. F. ancrer.]

1. To place at anchor; to secure by an anchor; as, to anchor a ship.

2. To fix or fasten; to fix in a stable condition; as, to anchor the
cables of a suspension bridge.
Till that my nails were anchored in thine eyes. Shak.

ANCHOR
An"chor, v. i.

1. To cast anchor; to come to anchor; as, our ship (or the captain)
anchored in the stream.

2. To stop; to fix or rest.
My invention . . . anchors on Isabel. Shak.

ANCHOR
An"chor, n. Etym: [OE. anker, ancre, AS. ancra, fr. L. anachoreta.
See Anchoret.]

Defn: An anchoret. [Obs.] Shak.

ANCHORABLE
An"chor*a*ble, a.

Defn: Fit for anchorage.

ANCHORAGE
An"chor*age, n.

1. The act of anchoring, or the condition of lying at anchor.

2. A place suitable for anchoring or where ships anchor; a hold for
an anchor.

3. The set of anchors belonging to a ship.

4. Something which holds like an anchor; a hold; as, the anchorages
of the Brooklyn Bridge.

5. Something on which one may depend for security; ground of trust.

6. A toll for anchoring; anchorage duties. Johnson.

ANCHORAGE
An"cho*rage, n.

Defn: Abode of an anchoret.

ANCHORATE
An"chor*ate, a.

Defn: Anchor-shaped.

ANCHORED
An"chored, a.

1. Held by an anchor; at anchor; held safely; as, an anchored bark;
also, shaped like an anchor; forked; as, an anchored tongue.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Having the extremities turned back, like the flukes of an
anchor; as, an anchored cross. [Sometimes spelt ancred.]

ANCHOR ESCAPEMENT
An"chor es*cape"ment. (Horol.)
 (a) The common recoil escapement.
 (b) A variety of the lever escapement with a wide impulse pin.

ANCHORESS
An"cho*ress, n.

Defn: A female anchoret.
And there, a saintly anchoress, she dwelt. Wordsworth.

ANCHORET; ANCHORITE
An"cho*ret, An"cho*rite, n. Etym: [F. anachorète, L. anachoreta, fr.
Gr. ha to leave. Cf. Anchor a hermit.]

Defn: One who renounces the world and secludes himself, usually for
religious reasons; a hermit; a recluse. [Written by some authors
anachoret.]
Our Savior himself . . . did not choose an anchorite's or a monastic
life, but a social and affable way of conversing with mortals. Boyle.

ANCHORETIC; ANCHORETICAL
An`cho*ret"ic, An`cho*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to an anchoret or hermit; after the manner of an
anchoret.

ANCHORETISH
An"cho*ret`ish, a.

Defn: Hermitlike.

ANCHORETISM
An"cho*ret*ism, n.

Defn: The practice or mode of life of an anchoret.

ANCHOR-HOLD
An"chor-hold`, n.

1. The hold or grip of an anchor, or that to which it holds.

2. Hence: Firm hold: security.

ANCHORITE
An"cho*rite, n.

Defn: Same as Anchoret.

ANCHORITESS
An"cho*ri`tess, n.

Defn: An anchoress. [R.]

ANCHORLESS
An"chor*less, a.

Defn: Without an anchor or stay. Hence: Drifting; unsettled.

ANCHOR LIGHT
Anchor light. (Naut.)

Defn: The lantern shown at night by a vessel at anchor. International
rules of the road require vessels at anchor to carry from sunset to
sunrise a single white light forward if under 150 feet in length, and
if longer, two such lights, one near the stern and one forward.

ANCHOR SHOT
Anchor shot. (Billiards)

Defn: A shot made with the object balls in an anchor space.

ANCHOR SPACE
Anchor space. (Billiards)

Defn: In the balk-line game, any of eight spaces, 7 inches by 3½,
lying along a cushion and bisected transversely by a balk line.
Object balls in an anchor space are treated as in balk.

ANCHOR WATCH
Anchor watch. (Naut.)

Defn: A detail of one or more men who keep watch on deck at night
when a vessel is at anchor.

ANCHOVY
An*cho"vy, n. Etym: [Sp. anchoa, anchova, or Pg. anchova, prob. of
Iberian origin, and lit. a dried or pickled fish, fr. Bisc. antzua
dry: cf. D. anchovis, F. anchois.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fish, about three inches in length, of the Herring
family (Engraulis encrasicholus), caught in vast numbers in the
Mediterranean, and pickled for exportation. The name is also applied
to several allied species.

ANCHOVY PEAR
An*cho"vy pear`. (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian fruit like the mango in taste, sometimes pickled;
also, the tree (Grias cauliflora) bearing this fruit.

ANCHUSIN
An"chu*sin, n. Etym: [L. anchusa the plant alkanet, Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A resinoid coloring matter obtained from alkanet root.

ANCHYLOSE
An"chy*lose, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Anchylosed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anchylosing.] Etym: [Cf. F. ankyloser.]

Defn: To affect or be affected with anchylosis; to unite or
consolidate so as to make a stiff joint; to grow together into one.
[Spelt also ankylose.] Owen.

ANCHYLOSIS; ANKYLOSIS
An`chy*lo"sis, An`ky*lo"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. ankylose.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Stiffness or fixation of a joint; formation of a stiff joint.
Dunglison.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The union of two or more separate bones to from a single bone;
the close union of bones or other structures in various animals.

ANCHYLOTIC
An`chy*lot"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anchylosis.

ANCIENT
An"cient, a. Etym: [OE. auncien, F. ancien, LL. antianus, fr. L. ante
before. See Ante-, pref.]

1. Old; that happened or existed in former times, usually at a great
distance of time; belonging to times long past; specifically applied
to the times before the fall of the Roman empire; -- opposed to
modern; as, ancient authors, literature, history; ancient days.
Witness those ancient empires of the earth. Milton.
Gildas Albanius . . . much ancienter than his namesake surnamed the
Wise. Fuller.

2. Old; that has been of long duration; of long standing; of great
age; as, an ancient forest; an ancient castle. "Our ancient
bickerings." Shak.
Remove not the ancient landmarks, which thy fathers have set. Prov.
xxii. 28.
An ancient man, strangely habited, asked for quarters. Scott.

3. Known for a long time, or from early times; -- opposed to recent
or new; as, the ancient continent.
A friend, perhaps, or an ancient acquaintance. Barrow.

4. Dignified, like an aged man; magisterial; venerable. [Archaic]
He wrought but some few hours of the day, and then would he seem very
grave and ancient. Holland.

5. Experienced; versed. [Obs.]
Though [he] was the youngest brother, yet he was the most ancient in
the business of the realm. Berners.

6. Former; sometime. [Obs.]
They mourned their ancient leader lost. Pope.
Ancient demesne (Eng. Law), a tenure by which all manors belonging to
the crown, in the reign of William the Conqueror, were held. The
numbers, names, etc., of these were all entered in a book called
Domesday Book.
 -- Ancient lights (Law), windows and other openings which have been
enjoined without molestation for more than twenty years. In England,
and in some of the United States, they acquire a prescriptive right.

Syn.
 -- Old; primitive; pristine; antique; antiquated; old-fashioned;
obsolete.
 -- Ancient, Antiquated, Obsolete, Antique, Antic, Old.
 -- Ancient is opposed to modern, and has antiquity; as, an ancient
family, ancient landmarks, ancient institutions, systems of thought,
etc. Antiquated describes that which has gone out of use or fashion;
as, antiquated furniture, antiquated laws, rules, etc. Obsolete is
commonly used, instead of antiquated, in reference to language,
customs, etc.; as, an obsolete word or phrase, an obsolete
expression. Antique is applied, in present usage, either to that
which has come down from the ancients; as, an antique cameo, bust,
etc. ; or to that which is made to imitate some ancient work of art;
as, an antique temple. In the days of Shakespeare, antique was often
used for ancient; as, "an antique song," "an antique Roman;" and
hence, from singularity often attached to what is ancient, it was
used in the sense of grotesque; as, "an oak whose antique root peeps
out; " and hence came our present word antic, denoting grotesque or
ridiculous. We usually apply both ancient and old to things subject
to gradual decay. We say, an old man, an ancient record; but never,
the old stars, an old river or mountain. In general, however, ancient
is opposed to modern, and old to new, fresh, or recent. When we speak
of a thing that existed formerly, which has ceased to exist, we
commonly use ancient; as, ancient republics, ancient heroes; and not
old republics, old heroes. But when the thing which began or existed
in former times is still in existence, we use either ancient or old;
as, ancient statues or paintings, or old statues or paintings;
ancient authors, or old authors, meaning books.

ANCIENT
An"cient, n.

1. pl.

Defn: Those who lived in former ages, as opposed to the moderns.

2. An aged man; a patriarch. Hence: A governor; a ruler; a person of
influence.
The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people,
and the princes thereof. Isa. iii. 14.

3. A senior; an elder; a predecessor. [Obs.]
Junius and Andronicus . . . in Christianity . . . were his ancients.
Hooker.

4. pl. (Eng. Law)

Defn: One of the senior members of the Inns of Court or of Chancery.
Council of Ancients (French Hist.), one of the two assemblies
composing the legislative bodies in 1795. Brande.

ANCIENT
An"cient, n. Etym: [Corrupted from ensign.]

1. An ensign or flag. [Obs.]
More dishonorable ragged than an old-faced ancient. Shak.

2. The bearer of a flag; an ensign. [Obs.]
This is Othello's ancient, as I take it. Shak.

ANCIENTLY
An"cient*ly, adv.

1. In ancient times.

2. In an ancient manner. [R.]

ANCIENTNESS
An"cient*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being ancient; antiquity; existence from old
times.

ANCIENTRY
An"cient*ry, n.

1. Antiquity; what is ancient.
They contain not word of ancientry. West.

2. Old age; also, old people. [R.]
Wronging the ancientry. Shak.

3. Ancient lineage; ancestry; dignity of birth.
A gentleman of more ancientry than estate. Fuller.

ANCIENTY
An"cient*y, n. Etym: [F. ancienneté, fr. ancien. See Ancient.]

1. Age; antiquity. [Obs.] Martin.

2. Seniority. [Obs.]

ANCILE
An*ci"le, n. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen from
heaven in the reign of Numa. It was the palladium of Rome.

ANCILLARY
An"cil*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. ancillaris, fr. ancilla a female servant.]

Defn: Subservient or subordinate, like a handmaid; auxiliary.
The Convocation of York seems to have been always considered as
inferior, and even ancillary, to the greater province. Hallam.

ANCILLARY ADMINISTRATION
An"cil*la*ry ad*min`is*tra"tion. (Law)

Defn: An administration subordinate to, and in aid of, the primary or
principal administration of an estate.

ANCILLE
An*cille", n. Etym: [OF. ancelle, L. ancilla.]

Defn: A maidservant; a handmaid. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANCIPITAL; ANCIPITOUS
An*cip"i*tal, An*cip"i*tous, a. Etym: [L. anceps, ancipitis, two-
headed, double; an- for amb- on both sides + caput head.] (Bot.)

Defn: Two-edged instead of round; -- said of certain flattened stems,
as those of blue grass, and rarely also of leaves.

ANCISTROID
An*cis"troid, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Hook-shaped.

ANCLE
An"cle, n.

Defn: See Ankle.

ANCOME
An"come, n. Etym: [AS. ancuman, oncuman, to come.]

Defn: A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow.
[Obs.] Boucher.

ANCON
An"con, n.; L. pl. Ancones. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The olecranon, or the elbow. Ancon sheep (Zoöl.), a breed of
sheep with short crooked legs and long back. It originated in
Massachusetts in 1791; -- called also the otter breed.

ANCON; ANCONE
An"con, An"cone, n. Etym: [See Ancon, above.] (Arch.)
(a) The corner or quoin of a wall, cross-beam, or rafter. [Obs.]
Gwilt.
(b) A bracket supporting a cornice; a console.

ANCONAL; ANCONEAL
An"co*nal, An*co"ne*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ancon or elbow. "The olecranon on
anconeal process." Flower.

ANCONEUS
An*co"ne*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. ancon elbow.] (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle of the elbow and forearm.

ANCONOID
An"co*noid, a.

Defn: Elbowlike; anconal.

ANCONY
An"co*ny, n. Etym: [Origin unknown.] (Iron Work)

Defn: A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar in
the middle, but unwrought at the ends.

-ANCY
-an*cy. Etym: [L. -antia.-]

Defn: A suffix expressing more strongly than -ance the idea of
quality or state; as, constancy, buoyancy, infancy.

AND
And, conj. Etym: [AS. and; akin to OS. endi, Icel. enda, OHG. anti,
enti, inti, unti, G. und, D. en, OD. ende. Cf, An if, Ante-.]

1. A particle which expresses the relation of connection or addition.
It is used to conjoin a word with a word, a clause with a clause, or
a sentence with a sentence.

Note: (a) It is sometimes used emphatically; as, "there are women and
women," that is, two very different sorts of women. (b) By a
rhetorical figure, notions, one of which is modificatory of the
other, are connected by and; as, "the tediousness and process of my
travel," that is, the tedious process, etc.; "thy fair and outward
character," that is, thy outwardly fair character, Schmidt's Shak.
Lex.

2. In order to; -- used instead of the infinitival to, especially
after try, come, go.
At least to try and teach the erring soul. Milton.

3. It is sometimes, in old songs, a mere expletive.
When that I was and a little tiny boy. Shak.

4. If; though. See An, conj. [Obs.] Chaucer.
As they will set an house on fire, and it were but to roast their
eggs. Bacon.
And so forth, and others; and the rest; and similar things; and other
things or ingredients. The abbreviation, etc. (et cetera), or &c., is
usually read and so forth.

ANDABATISM
An"da*ba*tism, n. Etym: [L. andabata a kind of Roman gladiator, who
fought hoodwinked.]

Defn: Doubt; uncertainty. [Obs.] Shelford.

ANDALUSITE
An`da*lu"site, n. (Min.)

Defn: A silicate of aluminium, occurring usually in thick rhombic
prisms, nearly square, of a grayish or pale reddish tint. It was
first discovered in Andalusia, Spain.

ANDANTE
An*dan"te, a. Etym: [It. andante, p. pr. of andare to go.] (Mus.)

Defn: Moving moderately slow, but distinct and flowing; quicker than
larghetto, and slower than allegretto.
 -- n.

Defn: A movement or piece in andante time.

ANDANTINO
An`dan*ti"no, a. Etym: [It., dim. of andante.] (Mus.)

Defn: Rather quicker than andante; between that allegretto.

Note: Some, taking andante in its original sense of "going," and
andantino as its diminutive, or "less going," define the latter as
slower than andante.

ANDARAC
An"da*rac, n. Etym: [A corruption of sandarac.]

Defn: Red orpiment. Coxe.

ANDEAN
An*de"an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the Andes.

ANDESINE
An"des*ine, n. (Min.)

Defn: A kind of triclinic feldspar found in the Andes.

ANDESITE
An"des*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: An eruptive rock allied to trachyte, consisting essentially of
a triclinic feldspar, with pyroxene, hornblende, or hypersthene.

ANDINE
An"dine, a.

Defn: Andean; as, Andine flora.

ANDIRON
And"i`ron, n. Etym: [OE. anderne, aunderne, aundyre, OF. andier, F.
landier, fr. LL. andena, andela, anderia, of unknown origin. The Eng.
was prob. confused with brand-iron, AS. brand-isen.]

Defn: A utensil for supporting wood when burning in a fireplace, one
being placed on each side; a firedog; as, a pair of andirons.

ANDRANATOMY
An`dra*nat"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. andranatomie. See Anatomy, Androtomy.]

Defn: The dissection of a human body, especially of a male;
androtomy. Coxe.

ANDROCEPHALOUS
An`dro*ceph"a*lous, a. [Gr. , , man +  head.]

Defn: Having a human head (upon an animal's body), as the Egyptian
sphinx.

ANDRODIOECIOUS; ANDRODIECIOUS
An`dro*di*o"cious, An`dro*di*e"cious, a. [Gr. , , man + E. diocious.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having perfect and staminate flowers on different plants. --
An`dro*di*o"cism, -di*e"cism (#), n.

ANDROECIUM
An*droe"ci*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (bot.)

Defn: The stamens of a flower taken collectively.

ANDROGYNE
An"dro*gyne, n.

1. An hermaphrodite.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An androgynous plant. Whewell.

ANDROGYNOUS; ANDROGYNAL
An*drog"y*nous, An*drog"y*nal, a. Etym: [L. androgynus, Gr.
androgyne.]

1. Uniting both sexes in one, or having the characteristics of both;
being in nature both male and female; hermaphroditic. Owen.
The truth is, a great mind must be androgynous. Coleridge.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing both staminiferous and pistilliferous flowers in the
same cluster.

ANDROGYNY; ANDROGYNISM
An*drog"y*ny, An*drog"y*nism, n.

Defn: Union of both sexes in one individual; hermaphroditism.

ANDROID
An"droid, a.

Defn: Resembling a man.

ANDROID; ANDROIDES
An"droid, An*droi"des, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A machine or automaton in the form of a human being.

ANDROMEDA
An*drom"e*da, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: A northern constellation, supposed to represent the mythical
Andromeda.

2. (bot.)

Defn: A genus of ericaceous flowering plants of northern climates, of
which the original species was found growing on a rock surrounded by
water.

ANDROMEDE; ANDROMED
An"dro*mede, An"dro*med, n. (Astron.)

Defn: A meteor appearing to radiate from a point in the constellation
Andromeda, -- whence the name.

 A shower of these meteors takes place every year on November 27th or
28th. The Andromedes are also called Bielids, as they are connected
with Biela's comet and move in its orbit.

ANDRON
An"dron, n. Etym: [L. andron, Gr. (Gr. & Rom. Arch.)

Defn: The apartment appropriated for the males. This was in the lower
part of the house.

ANDROPETALOUS
An`dro*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Produced by the conversion of the stamens into petals, as
double flowers, like the garden ranunculus. Brande.

ANDROPHAGI
An*droph"a*gi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi. [R.]

ANDROPHAGOUS
An*droph"a*gous, a.

Defn: Anthropophagous.

ANDROPHORE
An"dro*phore, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A support or column on which stamens are raised. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The part which in some Siphonophora bears the male gonophores.

ANDROPOGON
An`dro*po"gon, n. [NL.; Gr. 'anh`r, 'andro`s, man + pw`gwn the
beard.] (Bot.)

Defn: A very large and important genus of grasses, found in nearly
all parts of the world. It includes the lemon grass of Ceylon and the
beard grass, or broom sedge, of the United States. The principal
subgenus is Sorghum, including  A. sorghum and A. halepensis, from
which have been derived the Chinese sugar cane, the Johnson grass,
the Aleppo grass, the broom corn, and the durra, or Indian millet.
Several East Indian species, as A. nardus and A. schonanthus, yield
fragrant oils, used in perfumery.

ANDROSPHINX
An"dro*sphinx, n. Etym: [Gr. (Egypt. Art.)

Defn: A man sphinx; a sphinx having the head of a man and the body of
a lion.

ANDROSPORE
An"dro*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A spore of some algæ, which has male functions.

ANDROTOMOUS
An*drot"o*mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the filaments of the stamens divided into two parts.

ANDROTOMY
An*drot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. Anatomy.]

Defn: Dissection of the human body, as distinguished from zoötomy;
anthropotomy. [R.]

ANDROUS
*an"drous. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A terminal combining form: Having a stamen or stamens;
staminate; as, monandrous, with one stamen; polyandrous, with many
stamens.

ANEAR
A*near", prep. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + near.]

Defn: Near. [R.] "It did not come anear." Coleridge.
The measure of misery anear us. I. Taylor.

ANEAR
A*near", v. t. & i.

Defn: To near; to approach. [Archaic]

ANEATH
A*neath", prep. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + neath for beneath.]

Defn: Beneath. [Scot.]

ANECDOTAGE
An"ec*do`tage, n.

Defn: Anecdotes collectively; a collection of anecdotes.
All history, therefore, being built partly, and some of it
altogether, upon anecdotage, must be a tissue of lies. De Quincey.

ANECDOTAL
An"ec*do`tal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or abounding with, anecdotes; as, anecdotal
conversation.

ANECDOTE
An"ec*dote, n. Etym: [F. anecdote, fr. Gr. Dose, n.]

1. pl.

Defn: Unpublished narratives. Burke.

2. A particular or detached incident or fact of an interesting
nature; a biographical incident or fragment; a single passage of
private life.

ANECDOTIC; ANECDOTICAL
An`ec*dot"ic, An`ec*dot"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, consisting of, or addicted to, anecdotes.
"Anecdotical traditions." Bolingbroke.

ANECDOTIST
An"ec*do"tist, n.

Defn: One who relates or collects anecdotes.

ANELACE
An"e*lace, n.

Defn: Same as Anlace.

ANELE
A*nele", v. t. Etym: [OE. anelien; an on + AS. ele oil, L. oleum. See
Oil, Anoil.]

1. To anoint. Shipley.

2. To give extreme unction to. [Obs.] R. of Brunne.

ANELECTRIC
An`e*lec"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. electric.] (Physics)

Defn: Not becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to
idioelectric.
 -- n.

Defn: A substance incapable of being electrified by friction.
Faraday.

ANELECTRODE
An`e*lec"trode, n. Etym: [Gr. electrode.] (Elec.)

Defn: The positive pole of a voltaic battery.

ANELECTROTONUS
An`e*lec*trot"o*nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. electrotonus.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The condition of decreased irritability of a nerve in the
region of the positive electrode or anode on the passage of a current
of electricity through it. Foster.

ANEMOGRAM
A*nem"o*gram, n. Etym: [Gr. -gram.]

Defn: A record made by an anemograph.

ANEMOGRAPH
A*nem"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring and recording the direction and
force of the wind. Knight.

ANEMOGRAPHIC
A*nem`o*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Produced by an anemograph; of or pertaining to anemography.

ANEMOGRAPHY
An`e*mog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

1. A description of the winds.

2. The art of recording the direction and force of the wind, as by
means of an anemograph.

ANEMOLOGY
An`e*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of the wind.

ANEMOMETER
An`e*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the force or velocity of the wind;
a wind gauge.

ANEMOMETRIC; ANEMOMETRICAL
An`e*mo*met"ric, An`e*mo*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anemometry.

ANEMOMETROGRAPH
An`e*mo*met"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Anemometer + -graph.]

Defn: An anemograph. Knight.

ANEMOMETRY
An`e*mom"e*try, n.

Defn: The act or process of ascertaining the force or velocity of the
wind.

ANEMONE
A*nem"o*ne, n. Etym: [L. anemone, Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family;
windflower. Some of the species are cultivated in gardens.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sea anemone. See Actinia, and Sea anemone.

Note: This word is sometimes pronounced , especially by classical
scholars.

ANEMONIC
An`e*mon"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from,
the anemone, or from anemonin.

ANEMONIN
A*nem"o*nin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from
some species of anemone.

ANEMONY
A*nem"o*ny, n.

Defn: See Anemone. Sandys.

ANEMORPHILOUS
An`e*morph"i*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Fertilized by the agency of the wind; -- said of plants in
which the pollen is carried to the stigma by the wind; wind-
Fertilized. Lubbock.

ANEMOSCOPE
A*nem"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. anémoscope.]

Defn: An instrument which shows the direction of the wind; a wind
vane; a weathercock; -- usually applied to a contrivance consisting
of a vane above, connected in the building with a dial or index with
pointers to show the changes of the wind.

ANEMOSIS
An`e*mo"sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr. wind.]

Defn: A condition in the wood of some trees in which the rings are
separated, as some suppose, by the action of high winds upon the
trunk; wind shake.

ANENCEPHALIC; ANENCEPHALOUS
An*en`ce*phal"ic, An`en*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. Encephalon.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Without a brain; brainless. Todd & B.

ANENST; ANENT
A*nenst", A*nent", prep. Etym: [OE. anent, anentis, anence, anens,
anents, AS. onefen, onemn; an, on, on + efen even, equal; hence
meaning, on an equality with, even with, beside. See Even, a.] [Scot.
& Prov. Eng.]

1. Over against; as, he lives anent the church.

2. About; concerning; in respect; as, he said nothing anent this
particular.

ANENTEROUS
An*en"ter*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of a stomach or an intestine. Owen.

ANERGIA; ANERGY
An*er"gi*a, An"er*gy, n. [NL. anergia, fr. Gr. - not +  work.]

Defn: Lack of energy; inactivity. -- An*er"gic (#), a.

ANEROID
An"e*roid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. F. anéroïde.]

Defn: Containing no liquid; -- said of kind of barometer. Aneroid
barometer, a barometer the action of which depends on the varying
pressure of the atmosphere upon the elastic top of a metallic box
(shaped like a watch) from which the air has been exhausted. An index
shows the variation of pressure.

ANEROID
An"e*roid, n.

Defn: An aneroid barometer.

ANES
Anes, adv.

Defn: Once. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

ANESTHESIA; ANESTHETIC
An`es*the"si*a, n., An`es*thet"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Anæsthesia, Anæsthetic.

ANET
An"et, n. Etym: [F. aneth, fr. L. anethum, Gr. Anise.]

Defn: The herb dill, or dillseed.

ANETHOL
An"e*thol, n. Etym: [L. anethum (see Anise) + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance obtained from the volatile oils of anise, fennel,
etc., in the form of soft shining scales; -- called also anise
camphor. Watts.

ANETIC
A*net"ic, a. Etym: [L. aneticus, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Soothing.

ANEURISM
An"eu*rism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A soft, pulsating, hollow tumor, containing blood, arising from
the preternatural dilation or rupture of the coats of an artery.
[Written also aneurysm.]

ANEURISMAL
An`eu*ris"mal, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an aneurism; as, an aneurismal tumor;
aneurismal diathesis. [Written also aneurysmal.]

ANEW
A*new", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + new.]

Defn: Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to arm
anew; to create anew. Dryden.

ANFRACTUOSE
An*frac"tu*ose`, a. Etym: [See Anfractuous.]

Defn: Anfractuous; as, anfractuose anthers.

ANFRACTUOSITY
An*frac`tu*os"i*ty, n.; l. Anfractuosities. Etym: [Cf. F.
anfractuosité.]

1. A state of being anfractuous, or full of windings and turnings;
sinuosity.
The anfractuosities of his intellect and temper. Macaulay.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A sinuous depression or sulcus like those separating the
convolutions of the brain.

ANFRACTUOUS
An*frac"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. anfractuosus, fr. anfractus a turning, a
winding, fr. the unused anfringere to wind, bend; an-, for amb- +
fractus, p. p. of frangere to break: cf. F. anfractueux.]

Defn: Winding; full of windings and turnings; sinuous; tortuous; as,
the anfractuous spires of a born.
 -- An*frac"tu*ous*ness, n.

ANFRACTURE
An*frac"ture, n.

Defn: A mazy winding.

ANGARIATION
An*ga"ri*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. angariatio, fr. L. angaria service to
a lord, villenage, fr. anga, Gr.

Defn: Exaction of forced service; compulsion. [Obs.] Speed.

ANGEIOLOGY; ANGEIOTOMY
An`gei*ol"o*gy, n., An`gei*ot"o*my, etc.

Defn: Same as Angiology, Angiotomy, etc.

ANGEL
An"gel, n. Etym: [AS. æangel, engel, influenced by OF. angele, angle,
F. ange. Both the AS. and the OF. words are from L. angelus, Gr.

1. A messenger. [R.]
The dear good angel of the Spring, The nightingale. B. Jonson.

2. A spiritual, celestial being, superior to man in power and
intelligence. In the Scriptures the angels appear as God's
messengers.
O, welcome, pure-eyed Faith, white-handed Hope, Thou hovering angel,
girt with golden wings. Milton.

3. One of a class of "fallen angels;" an evil spirit; as, the devil
and his angels.

4. A minister or pastor of a church, as in the Seven Asiatic
churches. [Archaic]
Unto-the angel of the church of Ephesus write. Rev. ii. 1.

5. Attendant spirit; genius; demon. Shak.

6. An appellation given to a person supposed to be of angelic
goodness or loveliness; a darling.
When pain and anguish wring the brow. Sir W. Scott.

7. (Numis.)

Defn: An ancient gold coin of England, bearing the figure of the
archangel Michael. It varied in value from 6s. 8d. to 10s. Amer. Cyc.

Note: Angel is sometimes used adjectively; as, angel grace; angel
whiteness. Angel bed, a bed without posts.
 -- Angel fish. (Zoöl.) (a) A species of shark (Squatina angelus)
from six to eight feet long, found on the coasts of Europe and North
America. It takes its name from its pectoral fins, which are very
large and extend horizontally like wings when spread. (b) One of
several species of compressed, bright colored fishes warm seas,
belonging to the family, Chætodontidæ.
 -- Angel gold, standard gold. [Obs.] Fuller.
 -- Angel shark. See Angel fish.
 -- Angel shot (Mil.), a kind of chain shot.
 -- Angel water, a perfumed liquid made at first chiefly from
angelica; afterwards containing rose, myrtle, and orange-flower
waters, with ambergris, etc. [Obs.]

ANGELAGE
An"gel*age, n.

Defn: Existence or state of angels.

ANGELET
An"gel*et, n. Etym: [OF. angelet.]

Defn: A small gold coin formerly current in England; a half angel.
Eng. Cyc.

ANGEL FISH
An"gel fish.

Defn: See under Angel.

ANGELHOOD
An"gel*hood, n.

Defn: The state of being an angel; angelic nature. Mrs. Browning.

ANGELIC; ANGELICAL
An*gel"ic, An*gel"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. angelicus, Gr. angélique.]

Defn: Belonging to, or proceeding from, angels; resembling,
characteristic of, or partaking of the nature of, an angel; heavenly;
divine. "Angelic harps." Thomson."Angelical actions." Hooker.
The union of womanly tenderness and angelic patience. Macaulay.
Angelic Hymn, a very ancient hymn of the Christian Church; -- so
called from its beginning with the song of the heavenly host recorded
in Luke ii. 14. Eadie.

ANGELIC
An*gel"ic, a. Etym: [From Angelica.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or derived from angelica; as, angelic acid; angelic ether.
Angelic acid, an acid obtained from angelica and some other plants.

ANGELICA
An*gel"i*ca, n. Etym: [NL. See Angelic.] (Bot.)

1. An aromatic umbelliferous plant (Archangelica officinalis or
Angelica archangelica) the leaf stalks of which are sometimes candied
and used in confectionery, and the roots and seeds as an aromatic
tonic.

2. The candied leaf stalks of angelica. Angelica tree, a thorny North
American shrub (Aralia spinosa), called also Hercules' club.

ANGELICALLY
An*gel"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Like an angel.

ANGELICALNESS
An*gel"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being angelic; excellence more than human.

ANGELIFY
An*gel"i*fy, v. t.

Defn: To make like an angel; to angelize. [Obs.] Farindon (1647).

ANGELIZE
An"gel*ize, v. t.

Defn: To raise to the state of an angel; to render angelic.
It ought not to be our object to angelize, nor to brutalize, but to
humanize man. W. Taylor.

ANGELLIKE
An"gel*like`, a. & adv.

Defn: Resembling an angel.

ANGELOLATRY
An`gel*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Worship paid to angels.

ANGELOLOGY
An`gel*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. angelus, Gr. -logy.]

Defn: A discourse on angels, or a body of doctrines in regard to
angels.
The same mythology commanded the general consent; the same
angelology, demonology. Milman.

ANGELOPHANY
An`gel*oph"a*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The actual appearance of an angel to man.

ANGELOT
An"ge*lot, n. Etym: [F. angelot, LL. angelotus, angellotus, dim. of
angelus. See Angel.]

1. A French gold coin of the reign of Louis XI., bearing the image of
St. Michael; also, a piece coined at Paris by the English under Henry
VI. [Obs.]

2. An instrument of music, of the lute kind, now disused. Johnson. R.
Browning.

3. A sort of small, rich cheese, made in Normandy.

ANGELUS
An"ge*lus, n. Etym: [L.] (R. C. Ch.)
(a) A form of devotion in which three Ave Marias are repeated. It is
said at morning, noon, and evening, at the sound of a bell.
(b) The Angelus bell. Shipley.

ANGER
An"ger, n. Etym: [OE. anger, angre, affliction, anger, fr. Icel. angr
affliction, sorrow; akin to Dan. anger regret, Swed. ånger regret,
AS. ange oppressed, sad, L. angor a strangling, anguish, angere to
strangle, Gr. amhas pain, and to. anguish, anxious, quinsy, and perh.
awe, ugly. The word seems to have orig. meant to choke, squeeze.

1. Trouble; vexation; also, physical pain or smart of a sore, etc.
[Obs.]
I made the experiment, setting the moxa where . . . the greatest
anger and soreness still continued. Temple.

2. A strong passion or emotion of displeasure or antagonism, excited
by a real or supposed injury or insult to one's self or others, or by
the intent to do such injury.
Anger is like A full hot horse, who being allowed his way, Self-
mettle tires him. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Resentment; wrath; rage; fury; passion; ire gall; choler;
indignation; displeasure; vexation; grudge; spleen.
 -- Anger, Indignation, Resentment, Wrath, Ire, Rage, Fury. Anger is
a feeling of keen displeasure (usually with a desire to punish) for
what we regard as wrong toward ourselves or others. It may be
excessive or misplaced, but is not necessarily criminal. Indignation
is a generous outburst of anger in view of things which are indigna,
or unworthy to be done, involving what is mean, cruel, flagitious,
etc., in character or conduct. Resentment is often a moody feeling,
leading one to brood over his supposed personal wrongs with a deep
and lasting anger. See Resentment. Wrath and ire (the last poetical)
express the feelings of one who is bitterly provoked. Rage is a
vehement ebullition of anger; and fury is an excess of rage,
amounting almost to madness. Warmth of constitution often gives rise
to anger; a high sense of honor creates indignation at crime; a man
of quick sensibilities is apt to cherish resentment; the wrath and
ire of men are often connected with a haughty and vindictive spirit;
rage and fury are distempers of the soul to be regarded only with
abhorrence.

ANGER
An"ger, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Angered; p. pr. & vb. n. Angering.] Etym:
[Cf. Icel. angra.]

1. To make painful; to cause to smart; to inflame. [Obs.]
He . . . angereth malign ulcers. Bacon.

2. To excite to anger; to enrage; to provoke.
Taxes and impositions . . . which rather angered than grieved the
people. Clarendon.

ANGERLY
An"ger*ly, adv.

Defn: Angrily. [Obs. or Poetic]
Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly. Shak.

ANGEVINE
An"ge*vine, a. Etym: [F. Angevin.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Anjou in France.
 -- n. A native of Anjou.

ANGIENCHYMA
An`gi*en"chy*ma, n. Etym: [Gr. Parenchyma.] (Bot.)

Defn: Vascular tissue of plants, consisting of spiral vessels,
dotted, barred, and pitted ducts, and laticiferous vessels.

ANGINA
An*gi"na, n. Etym: [L., fr. angere to strangle, to choke. See Anger,
n.] (Med.)

Defn: Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as the
quinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tends
to produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath. Angina
pectoris, a peculiarly painful disease, so named from a sense of
suffocating contraction or tightening of the lower part of the chest;
-- called also breast pang, spasm of the chest.

ANGINOUS; ANGINOSE
An"gi*nous, An"gi*nose`, a. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to angina or angina pectoris.

ANGIO-
An"gi*o-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A prefix, or combining form, in numerous compounds, usually
relating to seed or blood vessels, or to something contained in, or
covered by, a vessel.

ANGIOCARPOUS
An`gi*o*car"pous, a. Etym: [Angio- + Gr. (Bot.)
(a) Having fruit inclosed within a covering that does not form a part
of itself; as, the filbert covered by its husk, or the acorn seated
in its cupule. Brande & C.
(b) Having the seeds or spores covered, as in certain lichens. Gray.

ANGIOGRAPHY
An`gi*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Angio- + -graphy: cf. F. angiographie.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A description of blood vessels and lymphatics.

ANGIOLOGY
An`gi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Angio- + -logy.] (Anat.)

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of blood vessels and
lymphatics.

ANGIOMA
An`gi*o"ma, n. Etym: [ + -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: A tumor composed chiefly of dilated blood vessels.

ANGIOMONOSPERMOUS
An`gi*o*mon`o*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Angio- + monospermous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Producing one seed only in a seed pod.

ANGIONEUROSIS
An`gi*o*neu*ro"sis, n. [NL.; angio- + neurosis.] (Med.)

Defn: Any disorder of the vasomotor system; neurosis of a blood
vessel. --An`gi*o*neu*rot"ic (#), a.

ANGIOPATHY
An`gi*op"a*thy, n.  [Angio- + Gr.  disease.] (Med.)

Defn: Disease of the vessels, esp. the blood vessels.

ANGIOSCOPE
An"gi*o*scope, n. Etym: [Angio- + -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for examining the capillary vessels of animals
and plants. Morin.

ANGIOSPERM
An"gi*o*sperm, n. Etym: [Angio- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant which has its seeds inclosed in a pericarp.

Note: The term is restricted to exogenous plants, and applied to one
of the two grand divisions of these species, the other division
including gymnosperms, or those which have naked seeds. The oak,
apple, beech, etc., are angiosperms, while the pines, spruce,
hemlock, and the allied varieties, are gymnosperms.

ANGIOSPERMATOUS
An`gi*o*sper"ma*tous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Angiospermous.

ANGIOSPERMOUS
An`gi*o*sper"mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having seeds inclosed in a pod or other pericarp.

ANGIOSPOROUS
An`gi*os"po*rous, a. Etym: [Angio- + spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having spores contained in cells or thecæ, as in the case of
some fungi.

ANGIOSTOMOUS
An`gi*os"to*mous, a. Etym: [Angio- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: With a narrow mouth, as the shell of certain gastropods.

ANGIOTOMY
An`gi*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Angio- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Dissection of the blood vessels and lymphatics of the body.
Dunglison.

ANGLE
An"gle, n. Etym: [F. angle, L. angulus angle, corner; akin to uncus
hook, Gr. angel hook, fish-hook, G. angel, and F. anchor.]

1. The inclosed space near the point where two lines; a corner; a
nook.
Into the utmost angle of the world. Spenser.
To search the tenderest angles of the heart. Milton.

2. (Geom.)
(a) The figure made by. two lines which meet.
(b) The difference of direction of two lines. In the lines meet, the
point of meeting is the vertex of the angle.

3. A projecting or sharp corner; an angular fragment.
Though but an angle reached him of the stone. Dryden.

4. (Astrol.)

Defn: A name given to four of the twelve astrological "houses."
[Obs.] Chaucer.

5. Etym: [AS. angel.]

Defn: A fishhook; tackle for catching fish, consisting of a line,
hook, and bait, with or without a rod.
Give me mine angle: we 'll to the river there. Shak.
A fisher next his trembling angle bears. Pope.
Acute angle, one less than a right angle, or less than 90º.
 -- Adjacent or Contiguous angles, such as have one leg common to
both angles.
 -- Alternate angles. See Alternate.
 -- Angle bar. (a) (Carp.) An upright bar at the angle where two
faces of a polygonal or bay window meet. Knight. (b) (Mach.) Same as
Angle iron.
 -- Angle bead (Arch.), a bead worked on or fixed to the angle of any
architectural work, esp. for protecting an angle of a wall.
 -- Angle brace, Angle tie (Carp.), a brace across an interior angle
of a wooden frame, forming the hypothenuse and securing the two side
pieces together. Knight.
 -- Angle iron (Mach.), a rolled bar or plate of iron having one or
more angles, used for forming the corners, or connecting or
sustaining the sides of an iron structure to which it is riveted.
 -- Angle leaf (Arch.), a detail in the form of a leaf, more or less
conventionalized, used to decorate and sometimes to strengthen an
angle.
 -- Angle meter, an instrument for measuring angles, esp. for
ascertaining the dip of strata.
 -- Angle shaft (Arch.), an enriched angle bead, often having a
capital or base, or both.
 -- Curvilineal angle, one formed by two curved lines.
 -- External angles, angles formed by the sides of any right-lined
figure, when the sides are produced or lengthened.
 -- Facial angle. See under Facial.
 -- Internal angles, those which are within any right-lined figure.
 -- Mixtilineal angle, one formed by a right line with a curved line.
 -- Oblique angle, one acute or obtuse, in opposition to a right
angle.
 -- Obtuse angle, one greater than a right angle, or more than 90º.
 -- Optic angle. See under Optic.
 -- Rectilineal or Right-lined angle, one formed by two right lines.
 -- Right angle, one formed by a right line falling on another
perpendicularly, or an angle of 90º (measured by a quarter circle).
 -- Solid angle, the figure formed by the meeting of three or more
plane angles at one point.
 -- Spherical angle, one made by the meeting of two arcs of great
circles, which mutually cut one another on the surface of a globe or
sphere.
 -- Visual angle, the angle formed by two rays of light, or two
straight lines drawn from the extreme points of an object to the
center of the eye.
 -- For Angles of commutation, draught, incidence, reflection,
refraction, position, repose, fraction, see Commutation, Draught,
Incidence, Reflection, Refraction, etc.

ANGLE
An"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Angled; p. pr. & vb. n. Angling.]

1. To fish with an angle (fishhook), or with hook and line.

2. To use some bait or artifice; to intrigue; to scheme; as, to angle
for praise.
The hearts of all that he did angle for. Shak.

ANGLE
An"gle, v. t.

Defn: To try to gain by some insinuating artifice; to allure. [Obs.]
"He angled the people's hearts." Sir P. Sidney.

ANGLED
An"gled, a.

Defn: Having an angle or angles; -- used in compounds; as, right-
angled, many-angled, etc.
The thrice three-angled beechnut shell. Bp. Hall.

ANGLEMETER
An"gle*me`ter, n. Etym: [Angle + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument to measure angles, esp. one used by geologists to
measure the dip of strata.

ANGLE OF ENTRY
An"gle of en"try. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The angle between the tangent to the advancing edge (of an
aërocurve) and the line of motion; -- contrasted with angle of trail,
which is the angle between the tangent to the following edge and the
line of motion.

ANGLE OF INCIDENCE
Angle of incidence. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The angle between the chord of an aërocurve and the relative
direction of the undisturbed air current.

ANGLER
An"gler, n.

1. One who angles.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having a
large, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiar
appendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes within
reach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish,
allmouth, monkfish, etc.

ANGLES
An"gles, n. pl. Etym: [L. Angli. See Anglican.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, which
came to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England). The Angles
probably came from the district of Angeln (now within the limits of
Schleswig), and the country now Lower Hanover, etc.

ANGLESITE
An"gle*site, n. Etym: [From the Isle of Anglesea.] (Min.)

Defn: A native sulphate of lead. It occurs in white or yellowish
transparent, prismatic crystals.

ANGLEWISE
An"gle*wise`, adv. Etym: [Angle + wise, OE. wise manner.]

Defn: In an angular manner; angularly.

ANGLEWORM
An"gle*worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A earthworm of the genus Lumbricus, frequently used by anglers
for bait. See Earthworm.

ANGLIAN
An"gli*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Angles.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Angles.

ANGLIC
An"glic, a.

Defn: Anglian.

ANGLICAN
An"gli*can, a. Etym: [Angli the Angles, a Germanic tribe in Lower
Germany. Cf. English.]

1. English; of or pertaining to England or the English nation;
especially, pertaining to, or connected with, the established church
of England; as, the Anglican church, doctrine, orders, ritual, etc.

2. Pertaining to, characteristic of, or held by, the high church
party of the Church of England.

ANGLICAN
An"gli*can, n.

1. A member of the Church of England.
Whether Catholics, Anglicans, or Calvinists. Burke.

2. In a restricted sense, a member of the High Church party, or of
the more advanced ritualistic section, in the Church of England.

ANGLICANISM
An"gli*can*ism, n.

1. Strong partiality to the principles and rites of the Church of
England.

2. The principles of the established church of England; also, in a
restricted sense, the doctrines held by the high-church party.

3. Attachment to England or English institutions.

ANGLICE
An"gli*ce, adv. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: In English; in the English manner; as, Livorno, Anglice
Leghorn.

ANGLICIFY
An*glic"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [NL. Anglicus English + -fly.]

Defn: To anglicize. [R.]

ANGLICISM
An"gli*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. anglicisme.]

1. An English idiom; a phrase or form language peculiar to the
English. Dryden.

2. The quality of being English; an English characteristic, custom,
or method.

ANGLICITY
An*glic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being English.

ANGLICIZATION
An`gli*ci*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of anglicizing, or making English in character.

ANGLICIZE
An"gli*cize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anglicized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anglicizing.]

Defn: To make English; to English; to anglify; render conformable to
the English idiom, or to English analogies.

ANGLIFY
An"gli*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anglified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anglifying.] Etym: [L. Angli + -fly.]

Defn: To convert into English; to anglicize. Franklin. Darwin.

ANGLING
An"gling, n.

Defn: The act of one who angles; the art of fishing with rod and
line. Walton.

ANGLO-
An"glo- Etym: [NL. Anglus English. See Anglican.]

Defn: A combining form meaning the same as English; or English and,
or English conjoined with; as, Anglo-Turkish treaty, Anglo-German,
Anglo-Irish. Anglo-American, . Of or pertaining to the English and
Americans, or to the descendants of Englishmen in America.
 -- n. A descendant from English ancestors born in America, or the
United States. Anglo-Danish, a. Of or pertaining to the English and
Danes, or to the Danes who settled in England. Anglo-Indian, a. Of or
pertaining to the English in India, or to the English and East Indian
peoples or languages.
 -- n. One of the Anglo-Indian race born or resident in the East
Indies. Anglo-Norman, a. Of or pertaining to the English and Normans,
or to the Normans who settled in England.
 -- n. One of the English Normans, or the Normans who conquered
England. Anglo-Saxon. See Anglo-Saxon in the Vocabulary.

ANGLO-CATHOLIC
An"glo-Cath"o*lic, a.,

Defn: Of or pertaining to a church modeled on the English
Reformation; Anglican; -- sometimes restricted to the ritualistic or
High Church section of the Church of England.

ANGLO-CATHOLIC
An"glo-Cath"o*lic, n.

Defn: A member of the Church of England who contends for its catholic
character; more specifically, a High Churchman.

ANGLO-CATHOLICISM
An"glo-Ca*thol"i*cism, n.

Defn: The belief of those in the Church of England who accept many
doctrines and practices which they maintain were those of the
primitive, or true, Catholic Church, of which they consider the
Church of England to be the lineal descendant.

ANGLOMANIA
An"glo*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Anglo'cf + mania.]

Defn: A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, English customs,
institutions, etc.

ANGLOMANIAC
An`glo*ma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: One affected with Anglomania.

ANGLOPHOBIA
An`glo*pho"bi*a, n. Etym: [Anglo- + Gr.

Defn: Intense dread of, or aversion to, England or the English.
 -- An"glo*phobe, n.

ANGLO-SAXON
An"glo-Sax"on, n. Etym: [L. Angli-Saxones English Saxons.]

1. A Saxon of Britain, that is, an English Saxon, or one the Saxons
who settled in England, as distinguished from a continental (or
"Old") Saxon.

2. pl.

Defn: The Teutonic people (Angles, Saxons, Jutes) of England, or the
English people, collectively, before the Norman Conquest.
It is quite correct to call Æthelstan "King of the Anglo-Saxons," but
to call this or that subject of Æthelstan "an Anglo-Saxon" is simply
nonsense. E. A. Freeman.

3. The language of the English people before the Conquest (sometimes
called Old English). See Saxon.

4. One of the race or people who claim descent from the Saxons,
Angles, or other Teutonic tribes who settled in England; a person of
English descent in its broadest sense.

ANGLO-SAXON
An"glo-Sax"on, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Anglo-Saxons or their language.

ANGLO-SAXONDOM
An"glo-Sax"on*dom, n.

Defn: The Anglo-Saxon domain (i. e., Great Britain and the United
States, etc.); the Anglo-Saxon race.

ANGLO-SAXONISM
An"glo-Sax"on*ism, n.

1. A characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race; especially, a word or an
idiom of the Anglo-Saxon tongue. M. Arnold.

2. The quality or sentiment of being Anglo-Saxon, or English in its
ethnological sense.

ANGOLA
An*go"la, n. Etym: [A corruption of Angora.]

Defn: A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat.

ANGOLA PEA
An*go"la pea`. (Bot.)

Defn: A tropical plant (Cajanus indicus) and its edible seed, a kind
of pulse; -- so called from Angola in Western Africa. Called also
pigeon pea and Congo pea.

ANGOR
An"gor, n. Etym: [L. See Anger.] (Med.)

Defn: Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upper
part of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression.

ANGORA
An*go"ra, n.

Defn: A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia) which has given its name to
a goat, a cat, etc. Angora cat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic cat
with very long and silky hair, generally of the brownish white color.
Called also Angola cat. See Cat.
 -- Angora goat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic goat, reared for
its long silky hair, which is highly prized for manufacture.

ANGOSTURA BARK
An`gos*tu"ra bark". Etym: [From Angostura, in Venezuela.]

Defn: An aromatic bark used as a tonic, obtained from a South
American of the rue family (Galipea cusparia, or officinalis). U. S.
Disp.

ANGOUMOIS MOTH
An`gou`mois" moth". Etym: [So named from Angoumois in France.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small moth (Gelechia cerealella) which is very destructive to
wheat and other grain. The larva eats out the inferior of the grain,
leaving only the shell.

ANGRILY
An"gri*ly, adv.

Defn: In an angry manner; under the influence of anger.

ANGRINESS
An"gri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being angry, or of being inclined to anger.
Such an angriness of humor that we take fire at everything. Whole
Duty of Man.

ANGRY
An"gry, a. [Compar. Angrier; superl. Angriest.] Etym: [See Anger.]

1. Troublesome; vexatious; rigorous. [Obs.]
God had provided a severe and angry education to chastise the
forwardness of a young spirit. Jer. Taylor.

2. Inflamed and painful, as a sore.

3. Touched with anger; under the emotion of anger; feeling
resentment; enraged; -- followed generally by with before a person,
and at before a thing.
Be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves. Gen. xlv. 5.
Wherefore should God be angry at thy voice Eccles. v. 6.

4. Showing anger; proceeding from anger; acting as if moved by anger;
wearing the marks of anger; as, angry words or tones; an angry sky;
angry waves. "An angry countenance." Prov. xxv. 23.

5. Red. [R.]
Sweet rose, whose hue, angry and brave. Herbert.

6. Sharp; keen; stimulated. [R.]
I never ate with angrier appetite. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- Passionate; resentful; irritated; irascible; indignant; provoked;
enraged; incensed; exasperated; irate; hot; raging; furious;
wrathful; wroth; choleric; inflamed; infuriated.

ANGUIFORM
An"gui*form, a. Etym: [L. angius snake + -form.]

Defn: Snake-shaped.

ANGUILLIFORM
An*guil"li*form, a. Etym: [L. anguilla eel (dim. of anguis snake) + -
form.]

Defn: Eel-shaped.

Note: The "Anguillæformes" of Cuvier are fishes related to thee eel.

ANGUINE
An"guine, a. Etym: [L. anguinus, fr. anguis snake.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a snake or serpent. "The
anguine or snakelike reptiles." Owen.

ANGUINEAL
An*guin"e*al, a.

Defn: Anguineous.

ANGUINEOUS
An*guin"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. anguineus.]

Defn: Snakelike.

ANGUISH
An"guish, n. Etym: [OE. anguishe, anguise, angoise, F. angoisse, fr.
L. angustia narrowness, difficulty, distress, fr. angustus narrow,
difficult, fr. angere to press together. See Anger.]

Defn: Extreme pain, either of body or mind; excruciating distress.
But they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for
cruel bondage. Ex. vi. 9.
Anguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child. Jer. iv. 31.

Note: Rarely used in the plural: -
Ye miserable people, you must go to God in anguishes, and make your
prayer to him. Latimer.

Syn.
 -- Agony; pang; torture; torment. See Agony.

ANGUISH
An"guish, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. angoisser, fr. L. angustiare.]

Defn: To distress with extreme pain or grief. [R.] Temple.

ANGULAR
An"gu*lar, a. Etym: [L. angularis, fr. angulus angle, corner. See
Angle.]

1. Relating to an angle or to angles; having an angle or angles;
forming an angle or corner; sharp-cornered; pointed; as, an angular
figure.

2. Measured by an angle; as, angular distance.

3. Fig.: Lean; lank; raw-boned; ungraceful; sharp and stiff in
character; as, remarkably angular in his habits and appearance; an
angular female. Angular aperture, Angular distance. See Aperture,
Distance.
 -- Angular motion, the motion of a body about a fixed point or fixed
axis, as of a planet or pendulum. It is equal to the angle passed
over at the point or axis by a line drawn to the body.
 -- Angular point, the point at which the sides of the angle meet;
the vertex.
 -- Angular velocity, the ratio of anuglar motion to the time
employed in describing.

ANGULAR
An"gu*lar, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles,
and fishes.

ANGULARITY
An`gu*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being angular; angularness.

ANGULARLY
An"gu*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In an angular manner; with of at angles or corners. B. Jonson.

ANGULARNESS
An"gu*lar*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being angular.

ANGULATE
An"gu*late, v. t.

Defn: To make angular.

ANGULATE; ANGULATED
An"gu*late, An"gu*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. angulatus, p. p. of angulare
to make angular.]

Defn: Having angles or corners; angled; as, angulate leaves.

ANGULATION
An`gu*la"tion, n.

Defn: A making angular; angular formation. Huxley.

ANGULO-DENTATE
An"gu*lo-den"tate(#), a.. Etym: [L. angulus angle + dens, dentis,
tooth.] (Bot.)

Defn: Angularly toothed, as certain leaves.

ANGULOMETER
An"gu*lom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. angulus angle + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring external angles.

ANGULOSE
An"gu*lose`, a.

Defn: Angulous. [R.]

ANGULOSITY
An`gu*los"i*ty, n.

Defn: A state of being angulous or angular. [Obs.]

ANGULOUS
An"gu*lous, a. Etym: [L. angulosus: cf. F. anguleux.]

Defn: Angular; having corners; hooked. [R.]
Held together by hooks and angulous involutions. Glanvill.

ANGUST
An*gust", a. Etym: [L. angustus. See Anguish.]

Defn: Narrow; strait. [Obs.]

ANGUSTATE
An*gus"tate, a. Etym: [L. angustatus, p. p. of angustare to make
narrow.]

Defn: Narrowed.

ANGUSTATION
An`gus*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act or making narrow; a straitening or contacting. Wiseman.

ANGUSTICLAVE
An*gus"ti*clave (an*gus"ti*klav), n. [L. angustus narrow + clavus a
nail, a stripe.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A narrow stripe of purple worn by the equites on each side of
the tunic as a sign of rank.

ANGUSTIFOLIATE; ANGUSTIFOLIOUS
An*gus`ti*fo"li*ate, An*gus`ti*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. angustus
narrow (see Anguish) + folium leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having narrow leaves. Wright.

ANGUSTURA BARK
An`gus*tu"ra bark`.

Defn: See Angostura bark.

ANGWANTIBO
An`gwan*ti"bo, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small lemuroid mammal (Arctocebus Calabarensis) of Africa. It
has only a rudimentary tail.

ANHANG
An*hang", v. t. Etym: [AS. onhangian.]

Defn: To hang. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANHARMONIC
An`har*mon"ic, a. Etym: [F. anharmonique, fr. Gr. (Math.)

Defn: Not harmonic. The anharmonic function or ratio of four points
abcd on a straight line is the quantity (ac/ad):(bc/bd), where the
segments are to regarded as plus or minus, according to the order of
the letters.

ANHELATION
An`he*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. anhelatio, fr. anhelare to pant; an
(perh. akin to E. on) + halare to breathe: cf. F. anhélation.]

Defn: Short and rapid breathing; a panting; asthma. Glanvill.

ANHELE
An*hele", v. i. Etym: [Cf. OF. aneler, anheler. See Anhelation.]

Defn: To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for). [Obs.]
They anhele . . . for the fruit of our convocation. Latimer.

ANHELOSE
An"he*lose, a.

Defn: Anhelous; panting. [R.]

ANHELOUS
An*he"lous, a. Etym: [L. anhelus.]

Defn: Short of breath; panting.

ANHIMA
An"hi*ma, n. Etym: [Brazilian name.]

Defn: A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi
(Palamedea cornuta). See Kamichi.

ANHINGA
An*hin"ga, n. Etym: [Pg.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An aquatic bird of the southern United States (Platus anhinga);
the darter, or snakebird.

ANHISTOUS
An*his"tous, a. Etym: [Gr. anhiste.] (Biol.)

Defn: Without definite structure; as, an anhistous membrane.

ANHUNGERED
An*hun"gered, a.

Defn: Ahungered; longing. [Archaic]

ANHYDRIDE
An*hy"dride, n. Etym: [See Anhydrous.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oxide of a nonmetallic body or an organic radical, capable
of forming an acid by uniting with the elements of water; -- so
called because it may be formed from an acid by the abstraction of
water.

ANHYDRITE
An*hy"drite, n. Etym: [See Anhydrous.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a white a slightly bluish color, usually massive.
It is anhydrous sulphate of lime, and differs from gypsum in not
containing water (whence the name).

ANHYDROUS
An*hy"drous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Destitute of water; as, anhydrous salts or acids.

ANI; ANO
A"ni or A"no, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A black bird of tropical America, the West Indies and Florida
(Crotophaga ani), allied to the cuckoos, and remarkable for
communistic nesting.

ANICUT; ANNICUT
An"i*cut, An"ni*cut, n. Etym: [Tamil anai kattu dam building.]

Defn: A dam or mole made in the course of a stream for the purpose of
regulating the flow of a system of irrigation. [India] Brande & C.

ANIDIOMATIC; ANIDIOMATICAL; UNIDIOMATIC; UNIDIOMATICAL
An*id`io*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. idiomatical.]

Defn: Not idiomatic. [R.] Landor.

ANIENT; ANIENTISE
An"i*ent, An`i*en"tise, v. t. Etym: [OF. anientir, F. anéantir.]

Defn: To frustrate; to bring to naught; to annihilate. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

ANIGH
A*nigh", prep. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + nigh.]

Defn: Nigh. [Archaic]

ANIGHT; ANIGHTS
A*night", A*nights", adv. Etym: [OE. on niht.]

Defn: In the night time; at night. [Archaic]
Does he hawk anights still Marston.

ANIL
An"il, n. Etym: [F. anil, Sp. anil, or Pg. anil; all fr. Ar. an-nil,
for al-nil the indigo plant, fr. Skr. nila dark blue, nili indigo,
indigo plant. Cf. Lilac.] (Bot.)

Defn: A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil), one of the original
sources of indigo; also, the indigo dye.

ANILE
An"ile, a. Etym: [L. anilis, fr. anus an old woman.]

Defn: Old-womanish; imbecile. "Anile ideas." Walpole.

ANILENESS
An"ile*ness, n.

Defn: Anility. [R.]

ANILIC
An*il"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied to
an acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo. [R.]

ANILIDE
An"i*lide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One of a class of compounds which may be regarded as amides in
which more or less of the hydrogen has been replaced by phenyl.

ANILINE
An"i*line, n. Etym: [See Anil.] (Chem.)

Defn: An organic base belonging to the phenylamines. It may be
regarded as ammonia in which one hydrogen atom has been replaced by
the radical phenyl. It is a colorless, oily liquid, originally
obtained from indigo by distillation, but now largely manufactured
from coal tar or nitrobenzene as a base from which many brilliant
dyes are made.

ANILINE
An"i*line, a.

Defn: Made from, or of the nature of, aniline.

ANILINISM
An"i*lin*ism, n.  [Aniline + -ism.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease due to inhaling the poisonous fumes present in the
manufacture of aniline.

ANILITY
A*nil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. anilitas. See Anile.]

Defn: The state of being and old woman; old-womanishness; dotage.
"Marks of anility." Sterne.

ANIMADVERSAL
An`i*mad*ver"sal, n.

Defn: The faculty of perceiving; a percipient. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

ANIMADVERSION
An`i*mad*ver"sion, n. Etym: [L. animadversio, fr. animadvertere: cf.
F. animadversion. See Animadvert.]

1. The act or power of perceiving or taking notice; direct or simple
perception. [Obs.]
The soul is the sole percipient which hath animadversion and sense,
properly so called. Glanvill.

2. Monition; warning. [Obs.] Clarendon.

3. Remarks by way of criticism and usually of censure; adverse
criticism; reproof; blame.
He dismissed their commissioners with severe and sharp
animadversions. Clarendon.

4. Judicial cognizance of an offense; chastisement; punishment.
[Archaic] "Divine animadversions." Wesley.

Syn.
 -- Stricture; criticism; censure; reproof; blame; comment.

ANIMADVERSIVE
An`i*mad*ver"sive, a.

Defn: Having the power of perceiving; percipient. [Archaic] Glanvill.
I do not mean there is a certain number of ideas glaring and shining
to the animadversive faculty. Coleridge.

ANIMADVERT
An`i*mad*vert", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Animadverted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Animadverting.] Etym: [L. animadvertere; animus mind + advertere to
turn to; ad to + vertere to turn.]

1. To take notice; to observe; -- commonly followed by that. Dr. H.
More.

2. To consider or remark by way of criticism or censure; to express
censure; -- with on or upon.
I should not animadvert on him . . . if he had not used extreme
severity in his judgment of the incomparable Shakespeare. Dryden.

3. To take cognizance judicially; to inflict punishment. [Archaic]
Grew.

Syn.
 -- To remark; comment; criticise; censure.

ANIMADVERTER
An`i*mad*vert"er, n.

Defn: One who animadverts; a censurer; also [Obs.], a chastiser.

ANIMAL
An"i*mal, n. Etym: [L., fr. anima breath, soul: cf. F. animal. See
Animate.]

1. An organized living being endowed with sensation and the power of
voluntary motion, and also characterized by taking its food into an
internal cavity or stomach for digestion; by giving carbonic acid to
the air and taking oxygen in the process of respiration; and by
increasing in motive power or active aggressive force with progress
to maturity.

2. One of the lower animals; a brute or beast, as distinguished from
man; as, men and animals.

ANIMAL
An"i*mal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. animal.]

1. Of or relating to animals; as, animal functions.

2. Pertaining to the merely sentient part of a creature, as
distinguished from the intellectual, rational, or spiritual part; as,
the animal passions or appetites.

3. Consisting of the flesh of animals; as, animal food. Animal
magnetism. See Magnetism and Mesmerism.
 -- Animal electricity, the electricity developed in some animals, as
the electric eel, torpedo, etc.
 -- Animal flower (Zoöl.), a name given to certain marine animals
resembling a flower, as any species of actinia or sea anemone, and
other Anthozoa, hydroids, starfishes, etc.
 -- Animal heat (Physiol.), the heat generated in the body of a
living animal, by means of which the animal is kept at nearly a
uniform temperature.
 -- Animal spirits. See under Spirit.
 -- Animal kingdom, the whole class of beings endowed with animal
life. It embraces several subkingdoms, and under these there are
Classes, Orders, Families, Genera, Species, and sometimes
intermediate groupings, all in regular subordination, but variously
arranged by different writers.

Note: The following are the grand divisions, or subkingdoms, and the
principal classes under them, generally recognized at the present
time: -Vertebrata, including Mammalia or Mammals, Aves or Birds,
Reptilia, Amphibia, Pisces or Fishes, Marsipobranchiata (Craniota);
and Leptocardia (Acrania). Tunicata, including the Thaliacea, and
Ascidioidea or Ascidians. Articulata or Annulosa, including Insecta,
Myriapoda, Malacapoda, Arachnida, Pycnogonida, Merostomata, Crustacea
(Arthropoda); and Annelida, Gehyrea (Anarthropoda). Helminthes or
Vermes, including Rotifera, Chætognatha, Nematoidea, Acanthocephala,
Nemertina, Turbellaria, Trematoda, Cestoidea, Mesozea. Molluscoidea,
including Brachiopoda and Bryozoa. Mollusca, including Cephalopoda,
Gastropoda, Pteropoda, Scaphopoda, Lamellibranchiata or Acephala.
Echinodermata, including Holothurioidea, Echinoidea, Asterioidea,
Ophiuroidea, and Crinoidea. Coelenterata, including Anthozoa or
Polyps, Ctenophora, and Hydrozoa or Acalephs. Spongiozoa or Porifera,
including the sponges. Protozoa, including Infusoria and Rhizopoda.
For definitions, see these names in the Vocabulary.

ANIMALCULAR; ANIMALCULINE
An`i*mal"cu*lar, An`i*mal"cu*line, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules. "Animalcular
life." Tyndall.

ANIMALCULE
An`i*mal"cule, n. Etym: [As if fr. a L. animalculum, dim. of animal.]

1. A small animal, as a fly, spider, etc. [Obs.] Ray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal, invisible, or nearly so, to the naked eye. See
Infusoria.

Note: Many of the so-called animalcules have been shown to be plants,
having locomotive powers something like those of animals. Among these
are Volvox, the Desmidiacæ, and the siliceous Diatomaceæ. Spermatic
animalcules. See Spermatozoa.

ANIMALCULISM
An`i*mal"cu*lism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalculisme.] (Biol.)

Defn: The theory which seeks to explain certain physiological and
pathological by means of animalcules.

ANIMALCULIST
An`i*mal"cu*list, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalculiste.]

1. One versed in the knowledge of animalcules. Keith.

2. A believer in the theory of animalculism.

ANIMALCULUM
An`i*mal"cu*lum, n.; pl. Animalcula. Etym: [NL. See Animalcule.]

Defn: An animalcule.

Note: Animalculæ, as if from a Latin singular animalcula, is a
barbarism.

ANIMALISH
An"i*mal*ish, a.

Defn: Like an animal.

ANIMALISM
An"i*mal*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalisme.]

Defn: The state, activity, or enjoyment of animals; mere animal life
without intellectual or moral qualities; sensuality.

ANIMALITY
An`i*mal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalité.]

Defn: Animal existence or nature. Locke.

ANIMALIZATION
An`i*mal*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animalisation.]

1. The act of animalizing; the giving of animal life, or endowing
with animal properties.

2. Conversion into animal matter by the process of assimilation.
Owen.

ANIMALIZE
An"i*mal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Animalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Animalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. animaliser.]

1. To endow with the properties of an animal; to represent in animal
form. Warburton.

2. To convert into animal matter by the processes of assimilation.

3. To render animal or sentient; to reduce to the state of a lower
animal; to sensualize.
The unconscious irony of the Epicurean poet on the animalizing
tendency of his own philosophy. Coleridge.

ANIMALLY
An"i*mal*ly, adv.

Defn: Physically. G. Eliot.

ANIMALNESS
An"i*mal*ness, n.

Defn: Animality. [R.]

ANIMASTIC
An`i*mas"tic, a. Etym: [L. anima breath, life.]

Defn: Pertaining to mind or spirit; spiritual.

ANIMASTIC
An`i*mas"tic, n.

Defn: Psychology. [Obs.]

ANIMATE
An"i*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Animated; p. pr. & vb. n. Animating.]
Etym: [L. animatus, p. p. of animare, fr. anima breath, soul; akin to
animus soul, mind, Gr. an to breathe, live, Goth. us-anan to expire
(us- out), Icel. önd breath, anda to breathe, OHG. ando anger. Cf.
Animal.]

1. To give natural life to; to make alive; to quicken; as, the soul
animates the body.

2. To give powers to, or to heighten the powers or effect of; as, to
animate a lyre. Dryden.

3. To give spirit or vigor to; to stimulate or incite; to inspirit;
to rouse; to enliven.
The more to animate the people, he stood on high . . . and cried unto
them with a loud voice. Knolles.

Syn.
 -- To enliven; inspirit; stimulate; exhilarate; inspire; instigate;
rouse; urge; cheer; prompt; incite; quicken; gladden.

ANIMATE
An"i*mate, a. Etym: [L. animatus, p. p.]

Defn: Endowed with life; alive; living; animated; lively.
The admirable structure of animate bodies. Bentley.

ANIMATED
An"i*ma`ted, a.

Defn: Endowed with life; full of life or spirit; indicating
animation; lively; vigorous. "Animated sounds." Pope. "Animated
bust." Gray. "Animated descriptions." Lewis.

ANIMATEDLY
An"i*ma`ted*ly, adv.

Defn: With animation.

ANIMATER
An"i*ma`ter, n.

Defn: One who animates. De Quincey.

ANIMATING
An"i*ma"ting, a.

Defn: Causing animation; life-giving; inspiriting; rousing.
"Animating cries." Pope.
 -- An"i*ma`ting*ly, adv.

ANIMATION
An`i*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. animatio, fr. animare.]

1. The act of animating, or giving life or spirit; the state of being
animate or alive.
The animation of the same soul quickening the whole frame. Bp. Hall.
Perhaps an inanimate thing supplies me, while I am speaking, with
whatever I posses of animation. Landor.

2. The state of being lively, brisk, or full of spirit and vigor;
vivacity; spiritedness; as, he recited the story with great
animation. Suspended animation, temporary suspension of the vital
functions, as in persons nearly drowned.

Syn.
 -- Liveliness; vivacity; spirit; buoyancy; airiness; sprightliness;
promptitude; enthusiasm; ardor; earnestness; energy. See Liveliness.

ANIMATIVE
An"i*ma*tive, a

Defn: Having the power of giving life or spirit. Johnson.

ANIMATOR
An"i*ma`tor, n. Etym: [L. animare.]

Defn: One who, or that which, animates; an animater. Sir T. Browne.

ANIME
A"ni*mé`, a. Etym: [F., animated.] (Her.)

Defn: Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of the
eyes of a rapacious animal. Brande & C.

ANIME
A"ni*mé, n. Etym: [F. animé animated (from the insects that are
entrapped in it); or native name.]

Defn: A resin exuding from a tropical American tree (Hymenæa
courbaril), and much used by varnish makers. Ure.

ANIMISM
An"i*mism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animisme, fr. L. anima soul. See
Animate.]

1. The doctrine, taught by Stahl, that the soul is the proper
principle of life and development in the body.

2. The belief that inanimate objects and the phenomena of nature are
endowed with personal life or a living soul; also, in an extended
sense, the belief in the existence of soul or spirit apart from
matter. Tylor.

ANIMIST
An"i*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. animiste.]

Defn: One who maintains the doctrine of animism.

ANIMISTIC
An`i*mis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to animism. Huxley. Tylor.

ANIMOSE; ANIMOUS
An`i*mose", An"i*mous, a. Etym: [L. animosus, fr. animus soul,
spirit, courage.]

Defn: Full of spirit; hot; vehement; resolute. [Obs.] Ash.

ANIMOSENESS
An`i*mose"ness, n.

Defn: Vehemence of temper. [Obs.]

ANIMOSITY
An`i*mos"i*ty, n.; pl. Animosities. Etym: [F. animosité, fr. L.
animositas. See Animose, Animate, v. t.]

1. Mere spiritedness or courage. [Obs.] Skelton.
Such as give some proof of animosity, audacity, and execution, those
she [the crocodile] loveth. Holland.

2. Violent hatred leading to active opposition; active enmity;
energetic dislike. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Enmity; hatred; opposition.
 -- Animosity, Enmity. Enmity be dormant or concealed; animosity is
active enmity, inflamed by collision and mutual injury between
opposing parties. The animosities which were continually springing up
among the clans in Scotland kept that kingdom in a state of turmoil
and bloodshed for successive ages. The animosities which have been
engendered among Christian sects have always been the reproach of the
church.
Such [writings] as naturally conduce to inflame hatreds and make
enmities irreconcilable. Spectator.
[These] factions . . . never suspended their animosities till they
ruined that unhappy government. Hume.

ANIMUS
An"i*mus, n.; pl. Animi. Etym: [L., mind.]

Defn: Animating spirit; intention; temper. nimus furandi Etym: [L.]
(Law), intention of stealing.

ANION
An"i*on, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro-
chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed to
cation. Faraday.

ANISE
An"ise, n. Etym: [OE. anys, F. anis, L. anisum, anethum, fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally in
Egypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative and
aromatic seeds.

2. The fruit or seeds of this plant.

ANISEED
An"i*seed, n.

Defn: The seed of the anise; also, a cordial prepared from it. "Oil
of aniseed." Brande & C.

ANISETTE
An`i*sette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A French cordial or liqueur flavored with anise seeds. De
Colange.

ANISIC
A*nis"ic, a.

Defn: Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol.

ANISOCORIA
An`i*so*co"ri*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  +  pupil.] (Med.)

Defn: Inequality of the pupils of the eye.

ANISODACTYLA; ANISODACTYLS
An`i*so*dac"ty*la, An`i*so*dac"tyls, n. pl. Etym: [NL. anisodactyla,
fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)
(a) A group of herbivorous mammals characterized by having the hoofs
in a single series around the foot, as the elephant, rhinoceros, etc.
(b) A group of perching birds which are anisodactylous.

ANISODACTYLOUS
An`i*so*dac"ty*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Characterized by unequal toes, three turned forward and one
backward, as in most passerine birds.

ANISOL
An"i*sol, n.  [Anisic + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: Methyl phenyl ether, C6H5OCH3, got by distilling anisic acid or
by the action of methide on potassium phenolate.

ANISOMERIC
An`i*so*mer"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Not isomeric; not made of the same components in the same
proportions.

ANISOMEROUS
An`i*som"er*ous, a. Etym: [See Anisomeric.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the number of floral organs unequal, as four petals and
six stamens.

ANISOMETRIC
An`i*so*met"ric, a. Etym: [Gr. isometric.]

Defn: Not isometric; having unsymmetrical parts; -- said of crystals
with three unequal axes. Dana.

ANISOMETROPIA
An`i*so*me*tro"pi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  +  measure + , , eye.]

Defn: Unequal refractive power in the two eyes.

ANISOPETALOUS
An`i*so*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having unequal petals.

ANISOPHYLLOUS
An`i*soph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having unequal leaves.

ANISOPLEURA
An`i*so*pleu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiral
shells. The two sides of the body are unequally developed.

ANISOPODA
An`i*sop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Crustacea, which, in some its characteristics, is
intermediate between Amphipoda and Isopoda.

ANISOSPORE
An"i*so*spore`, n. [Gr.  priv. + isospore.] (Biol.)

Defn: A sexual spore in which the sexes differ in size; -- opposed to
isospore.

ANISOSTEMONOUS
An`i*so*stem"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having unequal stamens; having stamens different in number from
the petals.

ANISOSTHENIC
An`i*so*sthen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of unequal strength.

ANISOTROPE; ANISOTROPIC
An"i*so*trope`, An`i*so*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: Not isotropic; having different properties in different
directions; thus, crystals of the isometric system are optically
isotropic, but all other crystals are anisotropic.

ANISOTROPOUS
An`i*sot"ro*pous, a.

Defn: Anisotropic.

ANISYL
An"i*syl, n. (Org. Chem.)
 (a) The univalent radical, CH3OC6H4, of which anisol is the hydride.
 (b) The univalent radical CH3OC6H4CH2; as, anisyl alcohol.
 (c) The univalent radical CH3OC6H4CO, of anisic acid.

ANITO
A*ni"to, n.; pl. -tos (#). [Sp.]

Defn: In Guam and the Philippines, an idol, fetich, or spirit.

ANKER
An"ker, n. Etym: [D. anker: cf. LL. anceria, ancheria.]

Defn: A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutch
anker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the old
wine gallons, or 8

ANKERITE
An"ker*ite, n. Etym: [So called from Prof. Anker of Austria: cf. F.
ankérite, G. ankerit.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral closely related to dolomite, but containing iron.

ANKH
Ankh, n. [Egypt.] (Egypt. Archæol.)

Defn: A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute or
sacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life. Called also
crux ansata.

ANKLE
An"kle, n. Etym: [OE. ancle, anclow, AS. ancleow; akin to Icel.
ökkla, ökli, Dan. and Sw. ankel, D. enklaauw, enkel, G. enkel, and
perh. OHG. encha, ancha thigh, shin: cf. Skr. anga limb, anguri
finger. Cf. Haunch.]

Defn: The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.
Ankle bone, the bone of the ankle; the astragalus.

ANKLED
An"kled, a.

Defn: Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled. Beau. &
Fl.

ANKLET
An"klet, n.

Defn: An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring.

ANKUS
An"kus, n. [Hind., fr. Skr. ankuça.]

Defn: An elephant goad with a sharp spike and hook, resembling a
short-handled boat hook. [India] Kipling.

ANKYLOSE
An"ky*lose, v. t. & i.

Defn: Same as Anchylose.

ANKYLOSIS
An`ky*lo"sis, n.

Defn: Same as Anchylosis.

ANKYLOSTOMIASIS
An`ky*los*to*mi"a*sis, n. [NL., fr. Ankylostoma, var. of
Agchylostoma, generic name of one genus of the parasitic nematodes.]
(Med.)

Defn: A disease due to the presence of the parasites Agchylostoma
duodenale, Uncinaria (subgenus Necator) americana, or allied
nematodes, in the small intestine. When present in large numbers they
produce a severe anæmia by sucking the blood from the intestinal
walls.  Called also miner's anæmia, tunnel disease, brickmaker's
anæmia, Egyptian chlorosis.

ANLACE
An"lace, n. Etym: [Origin unknown.]

Defn: A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle. [Written also
anelace.]

ANLAUT
An"laut`, n. [G.; an on + laut sound.] (Phon.)

Defn: An initial sound, as of a word or syllable.

-- Im anlaut, initially; when initial; --used of sounds.

ANN; ANNAT
Ann, An"nat, n. Etym: [LL. annata income of a year, also, of half a
year, fr. L. annus year: cf. F. annate annats.] (Scots Law)

Defn: A half years's stipend, over and above what is owing for the
incumbency, due to a minister's heirs after his decease.

ANNA
An"na, n. Etym: [Hindi ana.]

Defn: An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, or
about 2

ANNAL
An"nal, n.

Defn: See Annals.

ANNALIST
An"nal*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annaliste.]

Defn: A writer of annals.
The monks . . . were the only annalists in those ages. Hume.

ANNALISTIC
An`nal*is"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dry
annalistic style."A stiff annalistic method." Sir G. C. Lewis.

ANNALIZE
An"nal*ize, v. t.

Defn: To record in annals. Sheldon.

ANNALS
An"nals, n. pl. Etym: [L. annalis (sc. liber), and more frequently in
the pl. annales (sc. libri), chronicles, fr. annus year. Cf. Annual.]

1. A relation of events in chronological order, each event being
recorded under the year in which it happened. "Annals the
revolution." Macaulay. "The annals of our religion." Rogers.

2. Historical records; chronicles; history.
The short and simple annals of the poor. Gray.
It was one of the most critical periods in our annals. Burke.

3. sing.

Defn: The record of a single event or item. "In deathless annal."
Young.

4. A periodic publication, containing records of discoveries,
transactions of societies, etc.; as "Annals of Science."

Syn.
 -- History. See History.

ANNATS; ANNATES
An"nats, An"nates, n. pl. Etym: [See Ann.] (Eccl. Law)

Defn: The first year's profits of a spiritual preferment, anciently
paid by the clergy to the pope; first fruits. In England, they now
form a fund for the augmentation of poor livings.

ANNEAL
An*neal", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Annealing.]
Etym: [OE. anelen to heat, burn, AS. an; an on + to burn; also OE.
anelen to enamel, prob. influenced by OF. neeler, nieler, to put a
black enamel on gold or silver, F. nieller, fr. LL. nigellare to
blacken, fr. L. nigellus blackish, dim. of niger black. Cf. Niello,
Negro.]

1. To subject to great heat, and then cool slowly, as glass, cast
iron, steel, or other metal, for the purpose of rendering it less
brittle; to temper; to toughen.

2. To heat, as glass, tiles, or earthenware, in order to fix the
colors laid on them.

ANNEALER
An*neal"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, anneals.

ANNEALING
An*neal"ing, n.

1. The process used to render glass, iron, etc., less brittle,
performed by allowing them to cool very gradually from a high heat.

2. The burning of metallic colors into glass, earthenware, etc.

ANNECTENT
An*nec"tent, a. Etym: [L. annectere to tie or bind to. See Annex.]

Defn: Connecting; annexing. Owen.

ANNELID; ANNELIDAN
An`ne*lid, An*nel"i*dan, a. Etym: [F. annélide, fr. anneler to
arrange in rings, OF. anel a ring, fr. L. anellus a ring, dim. of
annulus a ring.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annelida.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Annelida.

ANNELIDA
An*nel"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Annelid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Articulata, having the body formed of
numerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs. The
principal subdivisions are the Chætopoda, including the Oligochæta or
earthworms and Polychæta or marine worms; and the Hirudinea or
leeches. See Chætopoda.

ANNELIDOUS
An*nel"i*dous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of the nature of an annelid.

ANNELLATA
An`nel*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Annelida.

ANNELOID
An"ne*loid, n. Etym: [F. annelé ringed + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal resembling an annelid.

ANNEX
An*nex", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annexed; p. pr. & vb. n. Annexing.]
Etym: [F. annexer, fr. L. annexus, p. p. of annectere to tie or bind
to; ad + nectere to tie, to fasten together, akin to Skr. nah to
bind.]

1. To join or attach; usually to subjoin; to affix; to append; --
followed by to. "He annexed a codicil to a will." Johnson.

2. To join or add, as a smaller thing to a greater.
He annexed a province to his kingdom. Johnson.

3. To attach or connect, as a consequence, condition, etc.; as, to
annex a penalty to a prohibition, or punishment to guilt.

Syn.
 -- To add; append; affix; unite; coalesce. See Add.

ANNEX
An*nex", v. i.

Defn: To join; to be united. Tooke.

ANNEX
An*nex", n. Etym: [F. annexe, L. annexus, neut. annexum, p. p. of
annectere.]

Defn: Something annexed or appended; as, an additional stipulation to
a writing, a subsidiary building to a main building; a wing.

ANNEXATION
An`nex*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annexation. See Annex, v. t.]

1. The act of annexing; process of attaching, adding, or appending;
the act of connecting; union; as, the annexation of Texas to the
United States, or of chattels to the freehold.

2.
(a) (Law) The union of property with a freehold so as to become a
fixture. Bouvier. (b) (Scots Law) The appropriation of lands or rents
to the crown. Wharton.

ANNEXATIONIST
An`nex*a"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One who favors annexation.

ANNEXER
An*nex"er, n.

Defn: One who annexes.

ANNEXION
An*nex"ion, n. Etym: [L. annexio a tying to, connection: cf. F.
annexion.]

Defn: Annexation. [R.] Shak.

ANNEXIONIST
An*nex"ion*ist, n.

Defn: An annexationist. [R.]

ANNEXMENT
An*nex"ment, n.

Defn: The act of annexing, or the thing annexed; appendage. [R.]
Shak.

ANNIHILABLE
An*ni"hi*la*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being annihilated.

ANNIHILATE
An*ni"hi*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annihilated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Annihilating.] Etym: [L. annihilare; ad + nihilum, nihil, nothing, ne
hilum (filum) not a thread, nothing at all. Cf. File, a row.]

1. To reduce to nothing or nonexistence; to destroy the existence of;
to cause to cease to be.
It impossible for any body to be utterly annihilated. Bacon.

2. To destroy the form or peculiar distinctive properties of, so that
the specific thing no longer exists; as, to annihilate a forest by
cutting down the trees. "To annihilate the army." Macaulay.

3. To destroy or eradicate, as a property or attribute of a thing; to
make of no effect; to destroy the force, etc., of; as, to annihilate
an argument, law, rights, goodness.

ANNIHILATE
An*ni"hi*late, a.

Defn: Anhilated. [Archaic] Swift.

ANNIHILATION
An*ni`hi*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annihilation.]

1. The act of reducing to nothing, or nonexistence; or the act of
destroying the form or combination of parts under which a thing
exists, so that the name can no longer be applied to it; as, the
annihilation of a corporation.

2. The state of being annihilated. Hooker.

ANNIHILATIONIST
An*ni`hi*la"tion*ist, n. (Theol.)

Defn: One who believes that eternal punishment consists in
annihilation or extinction of being; a destructionist.

ANNIHILATIVE
An*ni"hi*la*tive, a.

Defn: Serving to annihilate; destructive.

ANNIHILATOR
An*ni"hi*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, annihilates; as, a fire annihilator.

ANNIHILATORY
An*ni"hi*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Annihilative.

ANNIVERSARILY
An`ni*ver"sa*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: Annually. [R.] Bp. Hall.

ANNIVERSARY
An`ni*ver"sa*ry, a. Etym: [L. anniversarius; annus year + vertere,
versum, to turn: cf. F. anniversaire.]

Defn: Returning with the year, at a stated time; annual; yearly; as,
an anniversary feast. Anniversary day (R. C. Ch.). See Anniversary,
n., 2.
 -- Anniversary week, that week in the year in which the annual
meetings of religious and benevolent societies are held in Boston and
New York. [Eastern U. S.]

ANNIVERSARY
An`ni*ver"sa*ry, n.; pl. Anniversaries. Etym: [Cf. F. anniversaire.]

1. The annual return of the day on which any notable event took
place, or is wont to be celebrated; as, the anniversary of the
Declaration of Independence.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The day on which Mass is said yearly for the soul of a deceased
person; the commemoration of some sacred event, as the dedication of
a church or the consecration of a pope.

3. The celebration which takes place on an anniversary day. Dryden.

ANNIVERSE
An"ni*verse, n. Etym: [L. anni versus the turning of a year.]

Defn: Anniversary. [Obs.] Dryden.

ANNODATED
An"no*da`ted, a. Etym: [L. ad to + nodus a knot.] (Her.)

Defn: Curved somewhat in the form of the letter S. Cussans.

ANNO DOMINI
An"no Dom"i*ni. Etym: [L., in the year of [our] Lord [Jesus Christ];
usually abbrev. a. d.]

Defn: In the year of the Christian era; as, a. d. 1887.

ANNOMINATE
An*nom"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To name. [R.]

ANNOMINATION
An*nom`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. annominatio. See Agnomination.]

1. Paronomasia; punning.

2. Alliteration. [Obs.] Tyrwhitt.

ANNOTATE
An"no*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annotated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Annotating.] Etym: [L. annotatus; p. p. of annotare to annotate; ad +
notare to mark, nota mark. See Note, n.]

Defn: To explain or criticize by notes; as, to annotate the works of
Bacon.

ANNOTATE
An"no*tate, v. i.

Defn: To make notes or comments; -- with on or upon.

ANNOTATION
An`no*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. annotatio: cf. F. annotation.]

Defn: A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually in
the plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or a
passage.

ANNOTATIONIST
An`no*ta"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An annotator. [R.]

ANNOTATIVE
An"no*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by annotations; of the nature of annotation.

ANNOTATOR
An"no*ta`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A writer of annotations; a commentator.

ANNOTATORY
An*no"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an annotator; containing annotations. [R.]

ANNOTINE
An"no*tine, n. Etym: [L. annotinus a year old.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A bird one year old, or that has once molted.

ANNOTINOUS
An*not"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. annotinus, fr. annus year.] (Bot.)

Defn: A year old; in Yearly growths.

ANNOTTO; ARNOTTO
An*not"to, Ar*not"to, n. Etym: [Perh. the native name.]

Defn: A red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp
surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the
tropical regions of America. It is used for coloring cheese, butter,
etc. [Written also Anatto, Anatta, Annatto, Annotta, etc.]

ANNOUNCE
An*nounce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Announced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Announcing.] Etym: [OF. anoncier, F. annoncer, fr. L. annuntiare; ad
+ nuntiare to report, relate, nuntius messenger, bearer of news. See
Nuncio, and cf. Annunciate.]

1. To give public notice, or first notice of; to make known; to
publish; to proclaim.
Her [Q. Elizabeth's] arrival was announced through the country by a
peal of cannon from the ramparts. Gilpin.

2. To pronounce; to declare by judicial sentence.
Publish laws, announce Or life or death. Prior.

Syn.
 -- To proclaim; publish; make known; herald; declare; promulgate.
 -- To Publish, Announce, Proclaim, Promulgate. We publish what we
give openly to the world, either by oral communication or by means of
the press; as, to publish abroad the faults of our neighbors. We
announce what we declare by anticipation, or make known for the first
time; as, to announce the speedy publication of a book; to announce
the approach or arrival of a distinguished personage. We proclaim
anything to which we give the widest publicity; as, to proclaim the
news of victory. We promulgate when we proclaim more widely what has
before been known by some; as, to promulgate the gospel.

ANNOUNCEMENT
An*nounce"ment, n.

Defn: The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces;
proclamation; publication.

ANNOUNCER
An*noun"cer, n.

Defn: One who announces.

ANNOY
An*noy", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annoyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Annoying.]
Etym: [OE. anoien, anuien, OF. anoier, anuier, F. ennuyer, fr. OF.
anoi, anui, enui, annoyance, vexation, F. ennui. See Annoy, n.] To
disturb or irritate, especially by continued or repeated acts; to
tease; to ruffle in mind; to vex; as, I was annoyed by his remarks.
Say, what can more our tortured souls annoy Than to behold, admire,
and lose our joy Prior.

2. To molest, incommode, or harm; as, to annoy an army by impeding
its march, or by a cannonade.

Syn.
 -- To molest; vex; trouble; pester; embarrass; perplex; tease.

ANNOY
An*noy", n. Etym: [OE. anoi, anui, OF. anoi, anui, enui, fr. L. in
odio hatred (esse alicui in odio, Cic.). See Ennui, Odium, Noisome,
Noy.]

Defn: A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what one
dislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy.
Worse than Tantalus' is her annoy. Shak.

ANNOYANCE
An*noy"ance, n. Etym: [OF. anoiance, anuiance.]

1. The act of annoying, or the state of being annoyed; molestation;
vexation; annoy.
A deep clay, giving much annoyance to passengers. Fuller.
For the further annoyance and terror of any besieged place, they
would throw into it dead bodies. Wilkins.

2. That which annoys.
A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair, Any annoyance in that
precious sense. Shak.

ANNOYER
An*noy"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, annoys.

ANNOYFUL
An*noy"ful, a.

Defn: Annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNOYING
An*noy"ing, a.

Defn: That annoys; molesting; vexatious.
 -- An*noy"ing*ly, adv.

ANNOYOUS
An*noy"ous, a. Etym: [OF. enuius, anoios.]

Defn: Troublesome; annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNUAL
An"nu*al, a. Etym: [OE. annuel, F. annuel, fr. L. annualis, fr. annus
year. Cf. Annals.]

1. Of or pertaining to a year; returning every year; coming or
happening once in the year; yearly.
The annual overflowing of the river [Nile]. Ray.

2. Performed or accomplished in a year; reckoned by the year; as, the
annual motion of the earth.
A thousand pound a year, annual support. Shak.

2. Lasting or continuing only one year or one growing season;
requiring to be renewed every year; as, an annual plant; annual
tickets. Bacon.

ANNUAL
An"nu*al, n.

1. A thing happening or returning yearly; esp. a literary work
published once a year.

2. Anything, especially a plant, that lasts but one year or season;
an annual plant.
Oaths . . . in some sense almost annuals; . . . and I myself can
remember about forty different sets. Swift.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A Mass for a deceased person or for some special object, said
daily for a year or on the anniversary day.

ANNUALIST
An"nu*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who writes for, or who edits, an annual. [R.]

ANNUALLY
An"nu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Yearly; year by year.

ANNUARY
An"nu*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. annuaire.]

Defn: Annual. [Obs.] -- n.

Defn: A yearbook.

ANNUELER
An"nu*el*er, n.

Defn: A priest employed in saying annuals, or anniversary Masses.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNUENT
An"nu*ent, a. Etym: [L. annuens, p. pr. of annuere; ad + nuere to
nod.]

Defn: Nodding; as, annuent muscles (used in nodding).

ANNUITANT
An*nu"i*tant, n. Etym: [See Annuity.]

Defn: One who receives, or its entitled to receive, an annuity. Lamb.

ANNUITY
An*nu"i*ty, n.; pl. Annuities. Etym: [LL. annuitas, fr. L. annus
year: cf. F. annuité.]

Defn: A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given number
of years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance.

ANNUL
An*nul", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annulled; p. pr. & vb. n. Annulling.]
Etym: [F. annuler, LL. annullare, annulare, fr. L. ad to + nullus
none, nullum, neut., nothing. See Null, a.]

1. To reduce to nothing; to obliterate.
Light, the prime work of God, to me's extinct. And all her various
objects of delight Annulled. Milton.

2. To make void or of no effect; to nullify; to abolish; to do away
with; -- used appropriately of laws, decrees, edicts, decisions of
courts, or other established rules, permanent usages, and the like,
which are made void by component authority.
Do they mean to annul laws of inestimable value to our liberties
Burke.

Syn.
 -- To abolish; abrogate; repeal; cancel; reverse; rescind; revoke;
nullify; destroy. See Abolish.

ANNULAR
An"nu*lar, a. Etym: [L. annularis, fr. annulis ring: cf. F.
annulaire.]

1. Pertaining to, or having the form of, a ring; forming a ring;
ringed; ring-shaped; as, annular fibers.

2. Banded or marked with circles. Annular eclipse (Astron.), an
eclipse of the sun in which the moon at the middle of the eclipse
conceals the central part of the sun's disk, leaving a complete ring
of light around the border.

ANNULARITY
An`nu*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula. J.
Rogers.

ANNULARRY
An"nu*lar*ry, adv.

Defn: In an annular manner.

ANNULARY
An"nu*la*ry, a. Etym: [L. annularis. See Annular.]

Defn: Having the form of a ring; annular. Ray.

ANNULATA
An`nu*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl., fr. L. annulatus ringed.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of articulate animals, nearly equivalent to Annelida,
including the marine annelids, earthworms, Gephyrea, Gymnotoma,
leeches, etc. See Annelida.

ANNULATE
An"nu*late, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Annulata.

ANNULATE; ANNULATED
An"nu*late, An"nu*la`ted a. Etym: [L. annulatus.]

1. Furnished with, or composed of, rings; ringed; surrounded by rings
of color.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annulata.

ANNULATION
An`nu*la"tion, n.

Defn: A circular or ringlike formation; a ring or belt. Nicholson.

ANNULET
An"nu*let, n. Etym: [Dim. of annulus.]

1. A little ring. Tennyson.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A small, flat fillet, encircling a column, etc., used by
itself, or with other moldings. It is used, several times repeated,
under the Doric capital.

3. (Her.)

Defn: A little circle borne as a charge.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A narrow circle of some distinct color on a surface or round an
organ.

ANNULLABLE
An*nul"la*ble, a.

Defn: That may be Annulled.

ANNULLER
An*nul"ler, n.

Defn: One who annuls. [R.]

ANNULMENT
An*nul"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. annulement.]

Defn: The act of annulling; abolition; invalidation.

ANNULOID
An"nu*loid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annuloida.

ANNULOIDA
An`nu*loid"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. annulus ring + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Articulata, including the annelids and allied
groups; sometimes made to include also the helminths and echinoderms.
[Written also Annuloidea.]

ANNULOSA
An"nu*lo"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Invertebrata, nearly equivalent to the
Articulata. It includes the Arthoropoda and Anarthropoda. By some
zoölogists it is applied to the former only.

ANNULOSAN
An`nu*lo"san, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Annulosa.

ANNULOSE
An"nu*lose` (, a. Etym: [L. annulus ring.]

1. Furnished with, or composed of, rings or ringlike segments;
ringed.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Annulosa.

ANNULUS
An"nu*lus, n.; pl. Annuli. Etym: [L.]

1. A ring; a ringlike part or space.

2. (Geom.)
(a) A space contained between the circumferences of two circles, one
within the other.
(b) The solid formed by a circle revolving around a line which is the
plane of the circle but does not cut it.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Ring-shaped structures or markings, found in, or upon, various
animals.

ANNUMERATE
An*nu"mer*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. annumeratus, p. p. of annumerare. See
Numerate.]

Defn: To add on; to count in. [Obs.] Wollaston.

ANNUMERATION
An*nu`mer*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. annumeratio.]

Defn: Addition to a former number. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ANNUNCIABLE
An*nun"ci*a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be announced or declared; declarable. [R.]

ANNUNCIATE
An*nun"ci*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Annunciated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Annunciating.] Etym: [L. annuntiare. See Announce.]

Defn: To announce.

ANNUNCIATE
An*nun"ci*ate, p. p. & a.

Defn: Foretold; preannounced. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANNUNCIATION
An*nun`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. annuntiatio: cf. F. annonciation.]

1. The act of announcing; announcement; proclamation; as, the
annunciation of peace.

2. (Eccl.)
(a) The announcement of the incarnation, made by the angel Gabriel to
the Virgin Mary.
(b) The festival celebrated (March 25th) by the Church of England, of
Rome, etc., in memory of the angel's announcement, on that day; Lady
Day.

ANNUNCIATION LILY
An*nun`ci*a"tion lil"y. (Bot.)

Defn: The common white lily (Lilium candidum). So called because it
is usually introduced by painters in pictures of the Annunciation.

ANNUNCIATIVE
An*nun"ci*a*tive, a.

Defn: Pertaining to annunciation; announcing. [R.] Dr. H. More.

ANNUNCIATOR
An*nun"ci*a`tor, n. Etym: [L. annuntiator.]

1. One who announces. Specifically: An officer in the church of
Constantinople, whose business it was to inform the people of the
festivals to be celebrated.

2. An indicator (as in a hotel) which designates the room where
attendance is wanted.

ANNUNCIATORY
An*nun"ci*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, announcement; making known. [R.]

ANOA
A*noa", n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to the
buffalo, but having long nearly straight horns.

ANODE
An"ode, n. Etym: [Gr. (Elec.)

Defn: The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly the
electrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way to
the other pole; -- opposed to cathode.

ANODON
An"o*don, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having to teeth at the hinge.
[Written also Anodonta.]

ANODYNE
An"o*dyne, a. Etym: [L. anodynus, Gr. anodin.]

Defn: Serving to assuage pain; soothing.
The anodyne draught of oblivion. Burke.

Note: "The word [in a medical sense] in chiefly applied to the
different preparations of opium, belladonna, hyoscyamus, and
lettuce." Am. Cyc.

ANODYNE
An"o*dyne, n. Etym: [L. anodynon. See Anodyne, a.]

Defn: Any medicine which allays pain, as an opiate or narcotic;
anything that soothes disturbed feelings.

ANODYNOUS
An"o*dy`nous, a.

Defn: Anodyne.

ANOETIC
An`o*et"ic, a. [Gr.  unthinkable;  priv. +  perceptible, thinkable.]

1. Unthinkable. [Rare]

2.  (Psychol.) Not subject to conscious attention; having an
indefinite, relatively passive, conscious being; characteristic of
the "fringe" or "margin" of consciousness.

Presentation considered as having an existence relatively independent
of thought, may be called sentience, or anoetic consciousness.
Thought and sentience are fundamentally distinct mental functions.
G. F. Stout.

ANOIL
A*noil", v. t. Etym: [OF. enoilier.]

Defn: The anoint with oil. [Obs.] Holinshed.

ANOINT
A*noint", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anointed; p. pr. & vb. n. Anointing.]
Etym: [OF. enoint, p. p. of enoindre, fr. L. inungere; in + ungere,
unguere, to smear, anoint. See Ointment, Unguent.]

1. To smear or rub over with oil or an unctuous substance; also, to
spread over, as oil.
And fragrant oils the stiffened limbs anoint. Dryden.
He anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay. John ix. 6.

2. To apply oil to or to pour oil upon, etc., as a sacred rite,
especially for consecration.
Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his
[Aaron's] head and anoint him. Exod. xxix. 7.
Anoint Hazael to be king over Syria. 1 Kings xix. 15.
The Lord's Anointed, Christ or the Messiah; also, a Jewish or other
king by "divine right." 1 Sam. xxvi. 9.

ANOINT
A*noint", p. p.

Defn: Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ANOINTER
A*noint"er, n.

Defn: One who anoints.

ANOINTMENT
A*noint"ment, n.

Defn: The act of anointing, or state of being anointed; also, an
ointment. Milton.

ANOLIS
A*no"lis, n. Etym: [In the Antilles, anoli, anoalli, a lizard.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidæ. They
take the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and in
America are often called chameleons.

ANOMAL
A*nom"al, n.

Defn: Anything anomalous. [R.]

ANOMALIPED; ANOMALIPEDE
A*nom"a*li*ped(#), A*nom"a*li*pede, a. Etym: [L. anomalus irregular +
pes, pedis, foot.]

Defn: Having anomalous feet.

ANOMALIPED
A*nom"a*li*ped, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of perching birds, having the middle toe more or
less united to the outer and inner ones.

ANOMALISM
A*nom"a*lism, n.

Defn: An anomaly; a deviation from rule. Hooker.

ANOMALISTIC; ANOMALISTICAL
A*nom`a*lis"tic, A*nom`a*lis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. anomalistique.]

1. Irregular; departing from common or established rules.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: Pertaining to the anomaly, or angular distance of a planet from
its perihelion. Anomalistic month. See under Month.
 -- Anomalistic revolution, the period in which a planet or satellite
goes through the complete cycles of its changes of anomaly, or from
any point in its elliptic orbit to the same again.
 -- Anomalistic, or Periodical year. See under Year.

ANOMALISTICALLY
A*nom`a*lis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: With irregularity.

ANOMALOFLOROUS
A*nom`a*lo*flo"rous, a. Etym: [L. anomalus irregular + flos, floris,
flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having anomalous flowers.

ANOMALOUS
A*nom"a*lous, a Etym: [L. anomalus, Gr. Same, and cf. Abnormal.]

Defn: Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal;
irregular; as, an anomalous proceeding.

ANOMALOUSLY
A*nom"a*lous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anomalous manner.

ANOMALOUSNESS
A*nom"a*lous*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being anomalous.

ANOMALY
A*nom"a*ly, n.; pl. Anomalies. Etym: [L. anomalia, Gr. Anomalous.]

1. Deviation from the common rule; an irregularity; anything
anomalous.
We are enabled to unite into a consistent whole the various anomalies
and contending principles that are found in the minds and affairs of
men. Burke.
As Professor Owen has remarked, there is no greater anomaly in nature
than a bird that can not fly. Darwin.

2. (Astron.)
(a) The angular distance of a planet from its perihelion, as seen
from the sun. This is the true anomaly. The eccentric anomaly is a
corresponding angle at the center of the elliptic orbit of the
planet. The mean anomaly is what the anomaly would be if the planet's
angular motion were uniform.
(b) The angle measuring apparent irregularities in the motion of a
planet.

3. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Any deviation from the essential characteristics of a specific
type.

ANOMIA
A*no"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called from
their unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated for
attachment.

ANOMOPHYLLOUS
An`o*moph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having leaves irregularly placed.

ANOMURA; ANOMOURA
An`o*mu"ra, An`o*mou"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of decapod Crustacea, of which the hermit crab in an
example.

ANOMURAL; ANOMURAN
An`o*mu"ral, An`o*mu"ran, a.

Defn: Irregular in the character of the tail or abdomen; as, the
anomural crustaceans. [Written also anomoural, anomouran.]

ANOMURAN
An`o*mu"ran, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Anomura.

ANOMY
An"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. Anomia.]

Defn: Disregard or violation of law. [R.] Glanvill.

ANON
A*non", adv. Etym: [OE. anoon, anon, anan, lit., in one (moment), fr.
AS. on in + an one. See On and One.]

1. Straightway; at once. [Obs.]
The same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it.
Matt. xiii. 20.

2. Soon; in a little while.
As it shall better appear anon. Stow.

3. At another time; then; again.
Sometimes he trots, . . . anon he rears upright. Shak.
Anon right, at once; right off. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Ever and anon, now and then; frequently; often.
A pouncet box, which ever and anon He gave his nose. Shak.

ANONA
A*no"na, n. Etym: [NL. Cf. Ananas.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural order
Anonaceæ, including the soursop.

ANONACEOUS
An`o*na"ceous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the order of plants including the soursop,
custard apple, etc.

ANONYM
An"o*nym, n. Etym: [F. anonyme. See Anonymous.]

1. One who is anonymous; also sometimes used for "pseudonym."

2. A notion which has no name, or which can not be expressed by a
single English word. [R.] J. R. Seeley.

ANONYMITY
An`o*nym"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also,
that which anonymous. [R.]
He rigorously insisted upon the rights of anonymity. Carlyle.

ANONYMOUS
A*non"y*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. Name.]

Defn: Nameless; of unknown name; also, of unknown /or unavowed
authorship; as, an anonymous benefactor; an anonymous pamphlet or
letter.

ANONYMOUSLY
A*non"y*mous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anonymous manner; without a name. Swift.

ANONYMOUSNESS
A*non"y*mous*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being anonymous. Coleridge.

ANOPHELES
A*noph"e*les (a*nof"e*lez), n. [NL., fr. Gr. 'anwfelh`s useless,
hurtful.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of mosquitoes which are secondary hosts of the malaria
parasites, and whose bite is the usual, if not the only, means of
infecting human beings with malaria. Several species are found in the
United States. They may be distinguished from the ordinary mosquitoes
of the genus Culex by the long slender palpi, nearly equaling the
beak in length, while those of the female Culex are very short. They
also assume different positions when resting, Culex usually holding
the body parallel to the surface on which it rests and keeping the
head and beak bent at an angle, while Anopheles holds the body at an
angle with the surface and the head and beak in line with it. Unless
they become themselves infected by previously biting a subject
affected with malaria, the insects cannot transmit the disease.

ANOPHYTE
An"o*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A moss or mosslike plant which cellular stems, having usually
an upward growth and distinct leaves.

ANOPLA
An"o*pla, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.

ANOPLOTHERE; ANOPLOTHERIUM
An*op"lo*there, An`o*plo*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [From Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of extinct quadrupeds of the order Ungulata, whose were
first found in the gypsum quarries near Paris; characterized by the
shortness and feebleness of their canine teeth (whence the name).

ANOPLURA
An`o*plu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of insects which includes the lice.

ANOPSIA; ANOPSY
A*nop"si*a, An"op`sy, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want or defect of sight; blindness.

ANOREXIA; ANOREXY
An`o*rex"i*a, An"o*rex`y n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want of appetite, without a loathing of food. Coxe.

ANORMAL
A*nor"mal, a. Etym: [F. anormal. See Abnormal, Normal.]

Defn: Not according to rule; abnormal. [Obs.]

ANORN
A*norn, v. t. Etym: [OF. aörner, aöurner, fr. L. adornare to adorn.
The form a-ourne was corrupted into anourne.]

Defn: To adorn. [Obs.] Bp. Watson.

ANORTHIC
A*nor"thic, a. Etym: [See Anorthite.] (Min.)

Defn: Having unequal oblique axes; as, anorthic crystals.

ANORTHITE
A*nor"thite, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A mineral of the feldspar family, commonly occurring in small
glassy crystals, also a constituent of some igneous rocks. It is a
lime feldspar. See Feldspar.

ANORTHOCLASE
A*nor"tho*clase, n. [Gr.  priv. + orthoclase.] (Min.)

Defn: A feldspar closely related to orthoclase, but triclinic. It is
chiefly a silicate of sodium, potassium, and aluminium. Sp. gr., 2.57
-- 2.60.

ANORTHOPIA
An`or*tho"pi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. + ortho- + Gr. , , the eye.]
(Med.)

Defn: Distorted vision, in which straight lines appear bent.

ANORTHOSCOPE
A*nor"tho*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: An optical toy for producing amusing figures or pictures by
means of two revolving disks, on one of which distorted figures are
painted.

ANORTHOSITE
A*nor"tho*site, n. [F. anorthose triclinic feldspar (fr. Gr.  priv. +
straight) + -ite.] (Petrol.)

Defn: A granular igneous rock composed almost exclusively of a soda-
lime feldspar, usually labradorite.

ANOSMIA
A*nos"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Loss of the sense of smell.

ANOTHER
An*oth"er, pron. & a. Etym: [An a, one + other.]

1. One more, in addition to a former number; a second or additional
one, similar in likeness or in effect.
Another yet! -- a seventh! I 'll see no more. Shak.
Would serve to scale another Hero's tower. Shak.

2. Not the same; different.
He winks, and turns his lips another way. Shak.

3. Any or some; any different person, indefinitely; any one else;
some one else.
Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth. Prov. xxvii. 2.
While I am coming, another steppeth down before me. John v. 7.

Note: As a pronoun another may have a possessive another's, pl.
others, poss. pl. other'. It is much used in opposition to one; as,
one went one way, another another. It is also used with one, in a
reciprocal sense; as, "love one another," that is, let each love the
other or others. "These two imparadised in one another's arms."
Milton.

ANOTHER-GAINES
An*oth"er-gaines`, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. another-gates.]

Defn: Of another kind. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

ANOTHER-GATES
An*oth"er-gates`, a. Etym: [Another + gate, or gait, way. Cf.
Algates.]

Defn: Of another sort. [Obs.] "Another-gates adventure." Hudibras.

ANOTHER-GUESS
An*oth"er-guess, a. Etym: [Corrupted fr. another-gates.]

Defn: Of another sort. [Archaic]
It used to go in another-guess manner. Arbuthnot.

ANOTTA
A*not"ta, n.

Defn: See Annotto.

ANOURA
An*ou"ra, n.

Defn: See Anura.

ANOUROUS
An*ou"rous, a.

Defn: See Anurous.

ANOXAEMIA; ANOXEMIA
An`ox*æ"mi*a, An`ox*e"mi*a, n. [NL.; Gr.  priv. + oxygen + Gr.
blood.] (Med.)

Defn: An abnormal condition due to deficient aëration of the blood,
as in balloon sickness, mountain sickness. -- An`ox*æ"mic, *e"mic
(#), a.

ANSA
An"sa, n.; pl. Ansæ. Etym: [L., a handle.] (Astron.)

Defn: A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring.

ANSATED
An"sa*ted, a. Etym: [L. ansatus, fr. ansa a handle.]

Defn: Having a handle. Johnson.

ANSERATED
An"ser*a`ted, a. (Her.)

Defn: Having the extremities terminate in the heads of eagles, lions,
etc.; as, an anserated cross.

ANSERES
An"se*res, n. pl. Etym: [L., geese.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Linnæan order of aquatic birds swimming by means of webbed
feet, as the duck, or of lobed feet, as the grebe. In this order were
included the geese, ducks, auks, divers, gulls, petrels, etc.

ANSERIFORMES
An`se*ri*for"mes, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of birds including the geese, ducks, and closely
allied forms.

ANSERINE
An"ser*ine, a Etym: [L. anserinus, fr. anser a goose.]

1. Pertaining to, or resembling, a goose, or the skin of a goose.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Anseres.

ANSEROUS
An"ser*ous, a. Etym: [L. anser a goose.]

Defn: Resembling a goose; silly; simple. Sydney Smith.

ANSWER
An"swer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Answered; p. pr. & vb. n. Answering.]
Etym: [OE. andswerien, AS. andswerian, andswarian, to answer, fr.
andswaru, n., answer. See Answer, n.]

1. To speak in defense against; to reply to in defense; as, to answer
a charge; to answer an accusation.

2. To speak or write in return to, as in return to a call or
question, or to a speech, declaration, argument, or the like; to
reply to (a question, remark, etc.); to respond to.
She answers him as if she knew his mind. Shak.
So spake the apostate angel, though in pain: . . . And him thus
answered soon his bold compeer. Milton.

3. To respond to satisfactorily; to meet successfully by way of
explanation, argument, or justification, and the like; to refute.
No man was able to answer him a word. Matt. xxii. 46.
These shifts refuted, answer thine appellant. Milton.
The reasoning was not and could not be answered. Macaulay.

4. To be or act in return or response to. Hence:
(a) To be or act in compliance with, in fulfillment or satisfaction
of, as an order, obligation, demand; as, he answered my claim upon
him; the servant answered the bell.
This proud king . . . studies day and night To answer all the debts
he owes unto you. Shak.

(b) To render account to or for.
I will . . . send him to answer thee. Shak.

(c) To atone; to be punished for.
And grievously hath Cæzar answered it. Shak.

(d) To be opposite to; to face.
The windows answering each other, we could just discern the glowing
horizon them. Gilpin.

(e) To be or act an equivalent to, or as adequate or sufficient for;
to serve for; to repay. [R.]
Money answereth all things. Eccles. x. 19.

(f) To be or act in accommodation, conformity, relation, or
proportion to; to correspond to; to suit.
Weapons must needs be dangerous things, if they answered the bulk of
so prodigious a person. Swift.

ANSWER
An"swer, v. i.

1. To speak or write by way of return (originally, to a charge), or
in reply; to make response.
There was no voice, nor any that answered. 1 Kings xviii. 26.

2. To make a satisfactory response or return. Hence: To render
account, or to be responsible; to be accountable; to make amends; as,
the man must answer to his employer for the money intrusted to his
care.
Let his neck answer for it, if there is any martial law. Shak.

3. To be or act in return. Hence:
(a) To be or act by way of compliance, fulfillment, reciprocation, or
satisfaction; to serve the purpose; as, gypsum answers as a manure on
some soils.
Do the strings answer to thy noble hand Dryden.

(b) To be opposite, or to act in opposition.
(c) To be or act as an equivalent, or as adequate or sufficient; as,
a very few will answer.
(d) To be or act in conformity, or by way of accommodation,
correspondence, relation, or proportion; to conform; to correspond;
to suit; -- usually with to.
That the time may have all shadow and silence in it, and the place
answer to convenience. Shak.
If this but answer to my just belief, I 'll remember you. Shak.
As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man. Pro

ANSWER
An"swer, n. Etym: [OE. andsware, AS. andswaru; and against + swerian
to swear. Anti-, and Swear, and cf. 1st un-.]

1. A reply to a change; a defense.
At my first answer no man stood with me. 2 Tim. iv. 16.

2. Something said or written in reply to a question, a call, an
argument, an address, or the like; a reply.
A soft answer turneth away wrath. Prov. xv. 1.
I called him, but he gave me no answer. Cant. v. 6.

3. Something done in return for, or in consequence of, something
else; a responsive action.
Great the slaughter is Here made by the Roman; great the answer be
Britons must take. Shak.

4. A solution, the result of a mathematical operation; as, the answer
to a problem.

5. (Law)

Defn: A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; a
confutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsive
declaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is the
usual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill.
Bouvier.

Syn.
 -- Reply; rejoinder; response. See Reply.

ANSWERABLE
An"swer*a*ble, a.

1. Obliged to answer; liable to be called to account; liable to pay,
indemnify, or make good; accountable; amenable; responsible; as, an
agent is answerable to his principal; to be answerable for a debt, or
for damages.
Will any man argue that . . . he can not be justly punished, but is
answerable only to God Swift.

2. Capable of being answered or refuted; admitting a satisfactory
answer.
The argument, though subtle, is yet answerable. Johnson.

3. Correspondent; conformable; hence, comparable.
What wit and policy of man is answerable to their discreet and
orderly course Holland.
This revelation . . . was answerable to that of the apostle to the
Thessalonians. Milton.

4. Proportionate; commensurate; suitable; as, an achievement
answerable to the preparation for it.

5. Equal; equivalent; adequate. [Archaic]
Had the valor of his soldiers been answerable, he had reached that
year, as was thought, the utmost bounds of Britain. Milton.

ANSWERABLENESS
An"swer*a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being answerable, liable, responsible, or
correspondent.

ANSWERABLY
An"swer*a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an answerable manner; in due proportion or correspondence;
suitably.

ANSWERER
An"swer*er, n.

Defn: One who answers.

ANSWERLESS
An"swer*less, a.

Defn: Having no answer, or impossible to be answered. Byron.

AN 'T
An 't.

Defn: An it, that is, and it or if it. See An, conj. [Obs.]

AN'T
An't.

Defn: A contraction for are and am not; also used for is not; -- now
usually written ain't. [Colloq. & illiterate speech.]

ANT-
Ant-.

Defn: See Anti-, prefix.

-ANT
-ant. Etym: [F. -ant, fr. L. -antem or -entem, the pr. p. ending;
also sometimes directly from L. -antem.]

Defn: A suffix sometimes marking the agent for action; as, merchant,
covenant, servant, pleasant, etc. Cf. -ent.

ANT
Ant, n. Etym: [OE. ante, amete, emete, AS. æmete akin to G. ameise.
Cf. Emmet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hymenopterous insect of the Linnæan genus Formica, which is
now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.

Note: Among ants, as among bees, there are neuter or working ants,
besides the males and females; the former are without wings. Ants
live together in swarms, usually raising hillocks of earth, variously
chambered within, where they maintain a perfect system of order,
store their provisions, and nurture their young. There are many
species, with diverse habits, as agricultural ants, carpenter ants,
honey ants, foraging ants, amazon ants, etc. The white ants or
Termites belong to the Neuroptera. Ant bird (Zoöl.), one of a very
extensive group of South American birds (Formicariidæ), which live on
ants. The family includes many species, some of which are called ant
shrikes, ant thrushes, and ant wrens.
 -- Ant rice (Bot.), a species of grass (Aristida oligantha)
cultivated by the agricultural ants of Texas for the sake of its
seed.

ANTA
An"ta, n.; pl. Antæ. Etym: [L.] (Arch.)

Defn: A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its
termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and
base.

Note: Porches, when columns stand between two antæ, are called in
Latin in antis.

ANTACID
Ant*ac"id, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + acid.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent.
 -- a.

Defn: Counteractive of acidity.

ANTACRID
Ant*ac"rid, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + acrid.]

Defn: Corrective of acrimony of the humors.

ANTAEAN
An*tæ"an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Antæus, a giant athlete slain by Hercules.

ANTAGONISM
An*tag"o*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. antagonisme. See Agony.]

Defn: Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things or
principles.

Note: We speak of antagonism between two things, to or against a
thing, and sometimes with a thing.

ANTAGONIST
An*tag"o*nist, n. Etym: [L. antagonista, Gr. antagoniste. See
Antagonism.]

1. One who contends with another, especially in combat; an adversary;
an opponent.
Antagonist of Heaven's Almigthy King. Milton.
Our antagonists in these controversies. Hooker.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which acts in opposition to another; as a flexor,
which bends a part, is the antagonist of an extensor, which extends
it.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine which opposes the action of another medicine or of a
poison when absorbed into the blood or tissues.

Syn.
 -- Adversary; enemy; opponent; toe; competitor. See Adversary.

ANTAGONIST
An*tag"o*nist, a.

Defn: Antagonistic; opposing; counteracting; as, antagonist schools
of philosophy.

ANTAGONISTIC; ANTAGONISTICAL
An*tag`o*nis"tic, An*tag`o*nis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Opposing in combat, combating; contending or acting against;
as, antagonistic forces.
 -- An*tag`o*nis"tic*al*ly, adv.
They were distinct, adverse, even antagonistic. Milman.

ANTAGONIZE
An*tag"o*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Antagonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Antagonozing.] Etym: [Gr. Antagonism.]

Defn: To contend with; to oppose actively; to counteract.

ANTAGONIZE
An*tag"o*nize, v. i.

Defn: To act in opposition.

ANTAGONY
An*tag"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. antagonie. See Antagonism.]

Defn: Contest; opposition; antagonism. [Obs.]
Antagony that is between Christ and Belial. Milton.

ANTALGIC
An*tal"gic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. antalgique.] (Med.)

Defn: Alleviating pain.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine to alleviate pain; an anodyne. [R.]

ANTALKALI; ANTALKALINE
Ant*al"ka*li, Ant*al"ka*line, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + alkali.]

Defn: Anything that neutralizes, or that counteracts an alkaline
tendency in the system. Hoopplw.

ANTALKALINE
Ant*al"ka*line, a.

Defn: Of power to counteract alkalies.

ANTAMBULACRAL
Ant*am`bu*la"cral, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Away from the ambulacral region.

ANTANACLASIS
Ant`an*a*cla"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. Anaclastic.] (Rhet.)
(a) A figure which consists in repeating the same word in a different
sense; as, Learn some craft when young, that when old you may live
without craft.
(b) A repetition of words beginning a sentence, after a long
parenthesis; as, Shall that heart (which not only feels them, but
which has all motions of life placed in them), shall that heart, etc.

ANTANAGOGE
Ant`an*a*go"ge, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + anagoge.] (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure which consists in answering the charge of an
adversary, by a counter charge.

ANTAPHRODISIAC
Ant`aph*ro*dis"i*ac, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + aphrodisiac.] (Med.)

Defn: Capable of blunting the venereal appetite.
 -- n.

Defn: Anything that quells the venereal appetite.

ANTAPHRODITIC
Ant`aph*ro*dit"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. antaphroditique.]
(Med.)

1. Antaphrodisiac.

2. Antisyphilitic. [R.]

ANTAPHRODITIC
Ant`aph*ro*dit"ic, n.

Defn: An antaphroditic medicine.

ANTAPOPLECTIC
Ant`ap*o*plec"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + apoplectic.] (Med.)

Defn: Good against apoplexy.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine used against apoplexy.

ANTARCHISM
Ant*ar"chism, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: Opposition to government in general. [R.]

ANTARCHIST
Ant*ar"chist, n.

Defn: One who opposes all government. [R.]

ANTARCHISTIC; ANTARCHISTICAL
Ant`ar*chis"tic, Ant`ar*chis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to all human government. [R.]

ANTARCTIC
Ant*arc"tic, a. Etym: [OE. antartik, OF. antartique, F. antarctique,
L. antarcticus, fr. Gr. Arctic.]

Defn: Opposite to the northern or arctic pole; relating to the
southern pole or to the region near it, and applied especially to a
circle, distant from the pole 23º 28min. Thus we say the antarctic
pole, circle, ocean, region, current, etc.

ANTARES
An*ta"res, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The principal star in Scorpio: -- called also the Scorpion's
Heart.

ANTARTHRITIC
Ant`ar*thrit"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + arthritic.] (Med.)
Counteracting or alleviating gout.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy against gout.

ANTASTHMATIC
Ant`asth*mat"ic ( or ; see Asthma; 277), a. Etym: [Pref. anti- +
asthmatic.] (Med.)

Defn: Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for asthma.

ANT-BEAR
Ant"-bear`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An edentate animal of tropical America (the Tamanoir), living
on ants. It belongs to the genus Myrmecophaga.

ANT BIRD
Ant" bird, (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Ant bird, under Ant, n.

ANT-CATTLE
Ant"-cat`tle, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Various kinds of plant lice or aphids tended by ants for the
sake of the honeydew which they secrete. See Aphips.

ANT COW
Ant cow. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any aphid from which ants obtain honeydew.

ANTE-
An"te-.

Defn: A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. anti, Goth. and-,
anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.: cf. Answer,
Along), G. ant-, ent- (in comp.). The Latin ante is generally used in
the sense of before, in regard to position, order, or time, and the
Gr. opposite, or in the place of.

ANTE
An"te, n. (Poker Playing)

Defn: Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante)
the game begins.

ANTE
An"te, v. t. & i.

Defn: To put up (an ante).

ANTEACT
An"te*act`, n.

Defn: A preceding act.

ANTEAL
An"te*al, a. Etym: [antea, ante, before. Cf. Ancient.]

Defn: Being before, or in front. [R.] J. Fleming.

ANT-EATER
Ant"-eat`er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several species of edentates and monotremes that feed
upon ants. See Ant-bear, Pangolin, Aard-vark, and Echidna.

ANTECEDANEOUS
An`te*ce*da"ne*ous, a. Etym: [See Antecede.]

Defn: Antecedent; preceding in time. "Capable of antecedaneous
proof." Barrow.

ANTECEDE
An`te*cede", v. t. & i. Etym: [L. antecedere; ante + cedere to go.
See Cede.]

Defn: To go before in time or place; to precede; to surpass. Sir M.
Hale.

ANTECEDENCE
An`te*ced"ence, n.

1. The act or state of going before in time; precedence. H. Spenser.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: An apparent motion of a planet toward the west; retrogradation.

ANTECEDENCY
An`te*ced"en*cy, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being antecedent; priority.
Fothherby.

ANTECEDENT
An`te*ced"ent, a. Etym: [L. antecedens, -entis, p. pr. of antecedere:
cf. F. antécédent.]

1. Going before in time; prior; anterior; preceding; as, an event
antecedent to the Deluge; an antecedent cause.

2. Presumptive; as, an antecedent improbability.

Syn.
 -- Prior; previous; foregoing.

ANTECEDENT
An`te*ced"ent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. antécédent.]

1. That which goes before in time; that which precedes. South.
The Homeric mythology, as well as the Homeric language, has surely
its antecedents. Max Miller.

2. One who precedes or goes in front. [Obs.]
My antecedent, or my gentleman usher. Massinger.

3. pl.

Defn: The earlier events of one's life; previous principles, conduct,
course, history. J. H. Newman.
If the troops . . . prove worthy of their antecedents, the victory is
surely ours. Gen. G. McClellan.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: The noun to which a relative refers; as, in the sentence
"Solomon was the prince who built the temple," prince is the
antecedent of who.

5. (Logic)
(a) The first or conditional part of a hypothetical proposition; as,
If the earth is fixed, the sun must move.
(b) The first of the two propositions which constitute an enthymeme
or contracted syllogism; as, Every man is mortal; therefore the king
must die.

6. (Math.)

Defn: The first of the two terms of a ratio; the first or third of
the four terms of a proportion. In the ratio a:b, a is the
antecedent, and b the consequent.

ANTECEDENTLY
An`te*ced"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: Previously; before in time; at a time preceding; as,
antecedently to conversion. Barrow.

ANTECESSOR
An`te*ces"sor, n. Etym: [L., fr. antecedere, antecessum. See
Antecede, Ancestor.]

1. One who goes before; a predecessor.
The successor seldom prosecuting his antecessor's devices. Sir E.
Sandys.

2. An ancestor; a progenitor. [Obs.]

ANTECHAMBER
An"te*cham`ber, n. Etym: [Cf. F. antichambre.]

1. A chamber or apartment before the chief apartment and leading into
it, in which persons wait for audience; an outer chamber. See Lobby.

2. A space viewed as the outer chamber or the entrance to an interior
part.
The mouth, the antechamber to the digestive canal. Todd & Bowman.

ANTECHAPEL
An"te*chap`el, n.

Defn: The outer part of the west end of a collegiate or other chapel.
Shipley.

ANTECHOIR
An"te*choir`, n. (Arch.)
 (a) A space inclosed or reserved at the entrance to the choir, for
the clergy and choristers.
 (b) Where a choir is divided, as in some Spanish churches, that
division of it which is the farther from the sanctuary.

ANTECIANS
An*te"cians, n. pl.

Defn: See Ant.

ANTECOMMUNION
An`te*com*mun"ion, n.

Defn: A name given to that part of the Anglican liturgy for the
communion, which precedes the consecration of the elements.

ANTECURSOR
An`te*cur"sor, n. Etym: [L., fr. antecurrere to run before; ante +
currere to run.]

Defn: A forerunner; a precursor. [Obs.]

ANTEDATE
An"te*date`, n.

1. Prior date; a date antecedent to another which is the actual date.

2. Anticipation. [Obs.] Donne.

ANTEDATE
An"te*date`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Antedated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Antedating.]

1. To date before the true time; to assign to an earlier date; thus,
to antedate a deed or a bond is to give it a date anterior to the
true time of its execution.

2. To precede in time.

3. To anticipate; to make before the true time.
And antedate the bliss above. Pope.
Who rather rose the day to antedate. Wordsworth.

ANTEDILUVIAL
An`te*di*lu"vi*al, a. Etym: [Pref. ante- + diluvial.]

Defn: Before the flood, or Deluge, in Noah's time.

ANTEDILUVIAN
An`te*di*lu"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time;
hence, antiquated; as, an antediluvian vehicle.
 -- n.

Defn: One who lived before the Deluge.

ANTEFACT
An"te*fact`, n.

Defn: Something done before another act. [Obs.]

ANTEFIX
An"te*fix`, n.; pl. E. Antefixes; L. Antefixa. Etym: [L. ante + fixus
fixed.] (Arch.)
(a) An ornament fixed upon a frieze.
(b) An ornament at the eaves, concealing the ends of the joint tiles
of the roof.
(c) An ornament of the cymatium of a classic cornice, sometimes
pierced for the escape of water.

ANTEFLEXION
An`te*flex"ion, n. (Med.)

Defn: A displacement forward of an organ, esp. the uterus, in such
manner that its axis is bent upon itself. T. G. Thomas.

ANT EGG
Ant" egg`.

Defn: One of the small white egg-shaped pupæ or cocoons of the ant,
often seen in or about ant-hills, and popularly supposed to be eggs.

ANTELOPE
An"te*lope, n. Etym: [OF. antelop, F. antilope, fro Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of a group of ruminant quadrupeds, intermediate between the
deer and the goat. The horns are usually annulated, or ringed. There
are many species in Africa and Asia.
The antelope and wolf both fierce and fell. Spenser.

Note: The common or bezoar antelope of India is Antilope bezoartica.
The chamois of the Alps, the gazelle, the addax, and the eland are
other species. See Gazelle. The pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra
Americana) is found in the Rocky Mountains. See Pronghorn.

ANTELUCAN
An`te*lu"can, a. Etym: [L. antelucanus; ante + lux light.]

Defn: Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies of
Christians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in the
morning. "Antelucan worship." De Quincey.

ANTEMERIDIAN
An`te*me*rid"i*an, a. Etym: [L. antemeridianus; ante + meridianus
belonging to midday or noon. See Meridian.]

Defn: Being before noon; in or pertaining to the forenoon. (Abbrev.
a. m.)

ANTEMETIC
Ant`e*met"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + emetic.] (Med.)

Defn: Tending to check vomiting.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy to check or allay vomiting.

ANTE MORTEM
An`te mor"tem. [L.]

Defn: Before death; -- generally used adjectivelly; as, an ante-
mortem statement; ante-mortem examination.

 The ante-mortem statement, or dying declaration made in view of
death, by one injured, as to the cause and manner of the injury, is
often receivable in evidence against one charged with causing the
death.

ANTEMOSAIC
An`te*mo*sa"ic, a.

Defn: Being before the time of Moses.

ANTEMUNDANE
An`te*mun"dane, a.

Defn: Being or occurring before the creation of the world. Young.

ANTEMURAL
An`te*mu"ral, n. Etym: [L. antemurale: ante + murus wall. See Mural.]

Defn: An outwork of a strong, high wall, with turrets, in front
gateway (as of an old castle), for defending the entrance.

ANTENATAL
An`te*na"tal, a.

Defn: Before birth. Shelley.

ANTENICENE
An`te*ni"cene, a. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Of or in the Christian church or era, anterior to the first
council of Nice, held a. d. 325; as, antenicene faith.

ANTENNA
An*ten"na, n.; pl. Antennæ. Etym: [L. antenna sail-yard; NL., a
feeler, horn of an insect.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A movable, articulated organ of sensation, attached to the
heads of insects and Crustacea. There are two in the former, and
usually four in the latter. They are used as organs of touch, and in
some species of Crustacea the cavity of the ear is situated near the
basal joint. In insects, they are popularly called horns, and also
feelers. The term in also applied to similar organs on the heads of
other arthropods and of annelids.

ANTENNAL
An*ten"nal, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Belonging to the antennæ. Owen.

ANTENNIFEROUS
An`ten*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Antenna + -ferous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Bearing or having antennæ.

ANTENNIFORM
An*ten"ni*form, a. Etym: [Antenna + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like antennæ.

ANTENNULE
An*ten"nule, n. Etym: [Dim. of antenna.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennæ or
feelers of Crustacea.

ANTENUMBER
An`te*num"ber, n.

Defn: A number that precedes another. [R.] Bacon.

ANTENUPTIAL
An`te*nup"tial, a.

Defn: Preceding marriage; as, an antenuptial agreement. Kent.

ANTEORBITAL
An`te*or"bit*al, a. & n. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Antorbital.

ANTEPASCHAL
An`te*pas"chal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the time before the Passover, or before Easter.

ANTEPAST
An"te*past, n. Etym: [Pref. ante- + L. pastus pasture, food. Cf.
Repast.]

Defn: A foretaste.
Antepasts of joy and comforts. Jer. Taylor.

ANTEPENDIUM
An`te*pen"di*um, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. ante + pendere to hang.]
(Eccl.)

Defn: The hangings or screen in front of the altar; an altar cloth;
the frontal. Smollett.

ANTEPENULT; ANTEPENULTIMA
An`te*pe"nult, An`te*pe*nult"i*ma, n. Etym: [L. antepaenultima (sc.
syllaba) antepenultimate; ante before + paenultimus the last but one;
paene almost + ultimus last.] (Pros.)

Defn: The last syllable of a word except two, as -syl in
monosyllable.

ANTEPENULTIMATE
An`te*pe*nult"i*mate, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the last syllable but two.
 -- n.

Defn: The antepenult.

ANTEPHIALTIC
Ant`eph*i*al"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Good against nightmare.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy nightmare. Dunglison.

ANTEPILEPTIC
Ant`ep*i*lep"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + epileptic.] (Med.)

Defn: Good against epilepsy.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for epilepsy.

ANTEPONE
An"te*pone, v. t. Etym: [L. anteponere.]

Defn: To put before; to prefer. [Obs.] Bailey.

ANTEPORT
An"te*port, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. anteporta.]

Defn: An outer port, gate, or door.

ANTEPORTICO
An`te*por"ti*co, n.

Defn: An outer porch or vestibule.

ANTEPOSITION
An`te*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. antepositio. See Position.]
(Gram.)

Defn: The placing of a before another, which, by ordinary rules,
ought to follow it.

ANTEPRANDIAL
An`te*pran"di*al, a.

Defn: Preceding dinner.

ANTEPREDICAMENT
An`te*pre*dic"a*ment, n. (Logic)

Defn: A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments and
categories, such as definitions of common terms. Chambers.

ANTERIOR
An*te"ri*or, a. Etym: [L. anterior, comp. of ante before.]

1. Before in time; antecedent.
Antigonus, who was anterior to Polybius. Sir G. C. Lewis.

2. Before, or toward the front, in place; as, the anterior part of
the mouth; -- opposed to posterior.

Note: In comparative anatomy, anterior often signifies at or toward
the head, cephalic; and in human anatomy it is often used for
ventral.

Syn.
 -- Antecedent; previous; precedent; preceding; former; foregoing.

ANTERIORITY
An*te`ri*or"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. anterioritas.]

Defn: The state of being anterior or preceding in time or in
situation; priority. Pope.

ANTERIORLY
An*te"ri*or*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anterior manner; before.

ANTERO-
An"te*ro-.

Defn: A combining form meaning anterior, front; as, antero-posterior,
front and back; antero-lateral, front side, anterior and at the side.

ANTEROOM
An"te*room, n.

Defn: A room before, or forming an entrance to, another; a waiting
room.

ANTES; ANTAE
An"tes, n. pl. Antæ.

Defn: See Anta.

ANTESTATURE
An`te*stat"ure, n. (Fort.)

Defn: A small intrenchment or work of palisades, or of sacks of
earth.

ANTESTOMACH
An"te*stom`ach, n.

Defn: A cavity which leads into the stomach, as in birds. Ray.

ANTETEMPLE
An"te*tem`ple, n.

Defn: The portico, or narthex in an ancient temple or church.

ANTEVERSION
An`te*ver"sion, n. Etym: [Pref. ante- + L. vertere, versum, to turn.]
(Med.)

Defn: A displacement of an organ, esp. of the uterus, in such manner
that its whole axis is directed further forward than usual.

ANTEVERT
An`te*vert", v. t. Etym: [L. antevertere; ante + vertere to turn.]

1. To prevent. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

2. (Med.)

Defn: To displace by anteversion.

ANTHELION
Ant*hel"ion, n.; pl. Anthelia. Etym: [Pref. anti + Gr. (Meteor.)

Defn: A halo opposite the sun, consisting of a colored ring or rings
around the shadow of the spectator's own head, as projected on a
cloud or on an opposite fog bank.

ANTHELIX
Ant"he*lix, n. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Antihelix.

ANTHELMINTIC
An"thel*min"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Good against intestinal worms.
 -- An anthelmintic remedy. [Written also anthelminthic.]

ANTHEM
An"them, n. Etym: [OE. antym, antefne, AS. antefen, fr. LL.
antiphona, fr. Gr. anthaine, anteine, antieune, F. antienne. See
Antiphon.]

1. Formerly, a hymn sung in alternate parts, in present usage, a
selection from the Psalms, or other parts of the Scriptures or the
liturgy, set to sacred music.

2. A song or hymn of praise. Milton.

ANTHEM
An"them, v. t.

Defn: To celebrate with anthems. [Poet.]
Sweet birds antheming the morn. Keats.

ANTHEMION
An*the"mi*on, Etym: [ fr. Gr.

Defn: A floral ornament. See Palmette.

ANTHEMIS
An"the*mis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Chamomile; a genus of composite, herbaceous plants.

ANTHEMWISE
An"them*wise`, adv.

Defn: Alternately. [Obs.] Bacon.

ANTHER
An"ther, n. Etym: [F. anthère, L. anthera a medicine composed of
flowers, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizing
dust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of the
ovary.
 -- An"ther*al, a.

ANTHERIDIUM
An`ther*id"i*um, n.; pl. Anthplwidia. Etym: [Anther + (Bot.)

Defn: The male reproductive apparatus in the lower, consisting of a
cell or other cavity in which spermatozoids are produced; -- called
also spermary.
 -- An`ther*id"i*al, a.

ANTHERIFEROUS
An`ther*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Anther + -ferous.] (Bot.)
(a) Producing anthers, as plants.
(b) Supporting anthers, as a part of a flower. Gray.

ANTHERIFORM
An*ther"i*form, a. Etym: [Anther + -form.]

Defn: Shaped like an anther; anther-shaped.

ANTHEROGENOUS
An`ther*og"e*nous, a. Etym: [Anther + -genous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Transformed from anthers, as the petals of a double flower.

ANTHEROID
An"ther*oid, a. Etym: [Anther + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling an anther.

ANTHEROZOID; ANTHEROZOOID
An`ther*o*zoid, An`ther*o*zoo"id, n. Etym: [Gr. -oid. See Zooid.]
(Bot.)

Defn: One of the mobile male reproductive bodies in the antheridia of
cryptogams.

ANTHESIS
An*the"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The period or state of full expansion in a flower. Gray.

ANT-HILL
Ant"-hill, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mound thrown up by ants or by termites in forming their
nests.

ANTHOBIAN
An*tho"bi*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beetle which feeds on flowers.

ANTHOBRANCHIA
An`tho*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of nudibranchiate Mollusca, in which the gills form
a wreath or cluster upon the posterior part of the back. See
Nudibranchiata, and Doris.

ANTHOCARPOUS
An`tho*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having some portion of the floral envelopes attached to the
pericarp to form the fruit, as in the checkerberry, the mulberry, and
the pineapple.

ANTHOCYANIN
An`tho*cy"a*nin, n.

Defn: Same as Anthokyan.

ANTHODIUM
An*tho"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many florets
are gathered into a involucrate head.

ANTHOGRAPHY
An*thog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of flowers.

ANTHOID
An"thoid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling a flower; flowerlike.

ANTHOKYAN
An`tho*ky"an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: The blue coloring matter of certain flowers. Same as Cyanin.

ANTHOLITE
An"tho*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil plant, like a petrified flower.

ANTHOLOGICAL
An`tho*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthology; consisting of beautiful extracts from
different authors, especially the poets.
He published a geographical and anthological description of all
empires and kingdoms . . . in this terrestrial globe. Wood.

ANTHOLOGIST
An*thol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who compiles an anthology.

ANTHOLOGY
An*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A discourses on flowers. [R.]

2. A collection of flowers; a garland. [R.]

3. A collection of flowers of literature, that is, beautiful passages
from authors; a collection of poems or epigrams; -- particularly
applied to a collection of ancient Greek epigrams.

4. (Gr. Ch.)

Defn: A service book containing a selection of pieces for the
festival services.

ANTHOMANIA
An`tho*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A extravagant fondness for flowers. [R.]

ANTHONY'S FIRE
An"tho*ny's Fire`.

Defn: See Saint Anthony's Fire, under Saint.

ANTHOPHAGOUS
An*thoph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Eating flowers; -- said of certain insects.

ANTHOPHILOUS
An*thoph"i*lous, a. [Gr. 'a`nqos flower + fi`los loving.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Lit., fond of flowers; hence, feeding upon, or living among,
flowers.

ANTHOPHORE
An"tho*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx and
corolla, as in the Pink family. Gray.

ANTHOPHOROUS
An*thoph"o*rous, a.

Defn: Flower bearing; supporting the flower.

ANTHOPHYLLITE
An*thoph"yl*lite, n. Etym: [NL. anthophyllum clove.]

Defn: A mineral of the hornblende group, of a yellowish gray or clove
brown color.
 -- An`tho*phyl*lit"ic, a.

ANTHORISM
An"tho*rism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A description or definition contrary to that which is given by
the adverse party. [R.]

ANTHOTAXY
An"tho*tax`y, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The arrangement of flowers in a cluster; the science of the
relative position of flowers; inflorescence.

ANTHOZOA
An`tho*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The class of the Coelenterata which includes the corals and sea
anemones. The three principal groups or orders are Acyonaria,
Actinaria, and Madreporaria.

ANTHOZOAN
An`tho*zo"an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Anthozoa.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Anthozoa.

ANTHOZOIC
An"tho*zo"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Anthozoa.

ANTHRACENE
An"thra*cene, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompanies
naphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar. Its
chief use is in the artificial production of alizarin. [Written also
anthracin.]

ANTHRACENE OIL
An"thra*cene oil.

Defn: A heavy green oil (partially solidifying on cooling), which
distills over from coal tar at a temperature above 270º. It is the
principal source of anthracene.

ANTHRACIC
An*thrac"ic, a.

Defn: Of or relating to anthrax; as, anthracic blood.

ANTHRACIFEROUS
An`thra*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. -ferous.] (Min.)

Defn: Yielding anthracite; as, anthraciferous strata.

ANTHRACITE
An"thra*cite, n. Etym: [L. anthracites a kind of bloodstone; fr. Gr.
Anthrax.]

Defn: A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster,
differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, in
consequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame. The
purer specimens consist almost wholly of carbon. Also called glance
coal and blind coal.

ANTHRACITIC
An"thra*cit"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, anthracite; as, anthracitic
formations.

ANTHRACNOSE
An*thrac"nose`, n. [Gr. , , carbuncle +  disease.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several fungus diseases, caused by parasitic species
of the series Melanconiales, attacking the bean, grape, melon,
cotton, and other plants. In the case of the grape, brown concave
spots are formed on the stem and fruit, and the disease is called
bird's-eye rot.

ANTHRACOID
An"thra*coid, a. Etym: [Anthrax + -oid.] (Biol.)

Defn: Resembling anthrax in action; of the nature of anthrax; as, an
anthracoid microbe.

ANTHRACOMANCY
An"thra*co*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by inspecting a burning coal.

ANTHRACOMETER
An`thra*com"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the amount of carbonic acid in a
mixture.

ANTHRACOMETRIC
An`thra*co*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an anthracometer.

ANTHRACONITE
An*thra"co*nite, n. Etym: [See Anthracite.] (Min.)

Defn: A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell when
rubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone.

ANTHRACOSIS
An`thra*co"sis, n. [NL. See Anthrax.] (Med.)

Defn: A chronic lung disease, common among coal miners, due to the
inhalation of coal dust; -- called also collier's lung and miner's
phthisis.

ANTHRAQUINONE
An`thra*qui"none, n. Etym: [Anthracene + quinone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2O2.C6H4, subliming in shining yellow
needles. It is obtained by oxidation of anthracene.

ANTHRAX
An"thrax, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)
(a) A carbuncle.
(b) A malignant pustule.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A microscopic, bacterial organism (Bacillus anthracis),
resembling transparent rods. [See Illust. under Bacillus.]

3. An infectious disease of cattle and sheep. It is ascribed to the
presence of a rod-shaped bacterium (Bacillus anthracis), the spores
of which constitute the contagious matter. It may be transmitted to
man by inoculation. The spleen becomes greatly enlarged and filled
with bacteria. Called also splenic fever.

ANTHRAX VACCINE
An"thrax vac"cine. (Veter.)

Defn: A fluid vaccine obtained by growing a bacterium (Bacterium
anthracis) in beef broth. It is used to immunize animals, esp.
cattle.

ANTHRENUS
An*thre"nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small beetles, several of which, in the larval
state, are very destructive to woolen goods, fur, etc. The common
"museum pest" is A. varius; the carpet beetle is A. scrophulariæ. The
larvæ are commonly confounded with moths.

ANTHROPIC; ANTHROPICAL
An*throp"ic, An*throp"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or related to man; human. [R.] Owen.

ANTHROPIDAE
An*throp"i*dæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group that includes man only.

ANTHROPOCENTRIC
An`thro*po*cen"tric, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Assuming man as the center or ultimate end; -- applied to
theories of the universe or of any part of it, as the solar system.
Draper.

ANTHROPOGENIC
An`thro*po*gen"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anthropogeny.

ANTHROPOGENY
An`thro*pog"e*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science or study of human generation, or the origin and
development of man.

ANTHROPOGEOGRAPHY
An`thro*po*ge*og"ra*phy, n. [Gr.  man + geography.]

Defn: The science of the human species as to geographical
distribution and environment. Broadly, it includes industrial,
commercial, and political geography, and that part of ethnology which
deals with distribution and physical environment. --
An`thro*po*ge*og"ra*pher (#), n. -- An`thro*po*ge`o*graph"ic*al (#),
a.

ANTHROPOGLOT
An*throp"o*glot, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal which has a tongue resembling that of man, as the
parrot.

ANTHROPOGRAPHY
An`thro*pog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: That branch of anthropology which treats of the actual
distribution of the human race in its different divisions, as
distinguished by physical character, language, institutions, and
customs, in contradistinction to ethnography, which treats
historically of the origin and filiation of races and nations. P.
Cyc.

ANTHROPOID
An"thro*poid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as the
ourang or gorilla.
 -- n.

Defn: An anthropoid ape.

ANTHROPOIDAL
An`thro*poid"al, a.

Defn: Anthropoid.

ANTHROPOIDEA
An`thro*poid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Anthropoid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The suborder of primates which includes the monkeys, apes, and
man.

ANTHROPOLATRY
An`thro*pol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Man worship.

ANTHROPOLITE
An*throp"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.

ANTHROPOLOGIC; ANTHROPOLOGICAL
An`thro*po*log"ic, An`thro*po*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthropology; belonging to the nature of man.
"Anthropologic wisdom." Kingsley.
 -- An`thro*po*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTHROPOLOGIST
An`thro*pol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in anthropology.

ANTHROPOLOGY
An`thro*pol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

1. The science of the structure and functions of the human body.

2. The science of man; -- sometimes used in a limited sense to mean
the study of man as an object of natural history, or as an animal.

3. That manner of expression by which the inspired writers attribute
human parts and passions to God.

ANTHROPOMANCY
An"thro*po*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by the entrails of human being.

ANTHROPOMETRIC; ANTHROPOMETRICAL
An`thro*po*met"ric, An`thro*po*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthropometry.

ANTHROPOMETRY
An`thro*pom"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -mercy.]

Defn: Measurement of the height and other dimensions of human beings,
especially at different ages, or in different races, occupations,
etc. Dunglison.

ANTHROPOMORPHA
An`thro*po*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Anthropomorphism.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The manlike, or anthropoid, apes.

ANTHROPOMORPHIC
An`thro*po*mor"phic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anthromorphism. Hadley.
 -- An`thro*po*mor"phic*al*ly, adv.

ANTHROPOMORPHISM
An`thro*po*mor"phism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. The representation of the Deity, or of a polytheistic deity, under
a human form, or with human attributes and affections.

2. The ascription of human characteristics to things not human.

ANTHROPOMORPHIST
An`thro*po*mor"phist, n.

Defn: One who attributes the human form or other human attributes to
the Deity or to anything not human.

ANTHROPOMORPHITE
An`thro*po*mor"phite, n.

Defn: One who ascribes a human form or human attributes to the Deity
or to a polytheistic deity. Taylor. Specifically, one of a sect of
ancient heretics who believed that God has a human form, etc.
Tillotson.

ANTHROPOMORPHITIC
An`thro*po*mor*phit"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: to anthropomorphism. Kitto.

ANTHROPOMORPHITISM
An`thro*po*mor"phi*tism, n.

Defn: Anthropomorphism. Wordsworth.

ANTHROPOMORPHIZE
An`thro*po*mor"phize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To attribute a human form or personality to.
You may see imaginative children every day anthropomorphizing.
Lowell.

ANTHROPOMORPHOLOGY
An`thro*po*mor*phol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy. See Anthropomorphism.]

Defn: The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings.

ANTHROPOMORPHOSIS
An`thro*po*mor"pho*sis, n.

Defn: Transformation into the form of a human being.

ANTHROPOMORPHOUS
An`thro*po*mor"phous, a.

Defn: Having the figure of, or resemblance to, a man; as, an
anthromorphous plant. "Anthromorphous apes." Darwin.

ANTHROPONOMICS; ANTHROPONOMY
An`thro*po*nom"ics, An`thro*pon"o*my, n. [Gr.  man +  usage, law,
rule.]

Defn: The science of the laws of the development of the human
organism in relation to other organisms and to environment. --
An`thro*po*nom"ic*al (#), a.

ANTHROPOPATHIC; ANTHROPOPATHICAL
An`thro*po*path"ic, An`thro*po*path"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to anthropopathy. [R.] --
An`thro*po*path"ic*al*ly, adv.
The daring anthropopathic imagery by which the prophets often
represent God as chiding, upbraiding, threatening. H. Rogers.

ANTHROPOPATHISM; ANTHROPOPATHY
An`thro*pop"a*thism, An`thro*pop"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The ascription of human feelings or passions to God, or to a
polytheistic deity.
In its recoil from the gross anthropopathy of the vulgar notions, it
falls into the vacuum of absolute apathy. Hare.

ANTHROPOPATHITE
An`thro*pop"a*thite, n.

Defn: One who ascribes human feelings to deity.

ANTHROPOPHAGI
An`thro*poph"a*gi, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: Man eaters; cannibals. Shak.

ANTHROPOPHAGIC; ANTHROPOPHAGICAL
An`thro*po*phag"ic, An`thro*po*phag"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to cannibalism or anthropophagy.

ANTHROPOPHAGINIAN
An`thro*poph`a*gin"i*an, n.

Defn: One who east human flesh. [Ludicrous] Shak.

ANTHROPOPHAGITE
An`thro*poph"a*gite, n.

Defn: A cannibal. W. Taylor.

ANTHROPOPHAGOUS
An`thro*poph"a*gous, a.

Defn: Feeding on human flesh; cannibal.

ANTHROPOPHAGY
An`thro*poph"a*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The eating of human flesh; cannibalism.

ANTHROPOPHUISM
An"thro*poph"u*ism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Human nature. [R.] Gladstone.

ANTHROPOSCOPY
An`thro*pos"co*py, n. Etym: [Gr. -scopy.]

Defn: The art of discovering or judging of a man's character,
passions. and inclinations from a study of his visible features. [R.]

ANTHROPOSOPHY
An`thro*pos"o*phy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Knowledge of the nature of man; hence, human wisdom.

ANTHROPOTOMICAL
An`thro*po*tom"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to anthropotomy, or the dissection of human bodies.

ANTHROPOTOMIST
An`thro*pot"o*mist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in anthropotomy, or human anatomy.

ANTHROPOTOMY
An`thro*pot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The anatomy or dissection of the human body; androtomy. Owen.

ANTHYPNOTIC
Ant`hyp*not"ic.

Defn: See Antihypnotic.

ANTHYPOCHONDRIAC
Ant`hyp*o*chon"dri*ac, a. & n.

Defn: See Antihypochondriac.

ANTHYSTERIC
Ant`hys*ter"ic, a. & n.

Defn: See Antihysteric.

ANTI
An"ti. Etym: [Gr. Ante.]

Defn: A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, or
in place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It is
often shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic.

ANTIAE
An"ti*æ, n. pl. Etym: [L., forelock.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of some
birds; the frontal points.

ANTIALBUMID
An`ti*al*bu"mid, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + -albumin.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A body formed from albumin by pancreatic and gastric digestion.
It is convertible into antipeptone.

ANTIALBUMOSE
An`ti*al"bu*mose`, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: See Albumose.

ANTI-AMERICAN
An`ti-A*mer"i*can, a.

Defn: Opposed to the Americans, their aims, or interests, or to the
genius of American institutions. Marshall.

ANTIAPHRODISIAC
An`ti*aph`ro*dis"i*ac, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Antaphrodisiac.

ANTIAPOPLECTIC
An`ti*ap`o*plec"tic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antapoplectic.

ANTIAR
An"ti*ar, n. Etym: [Jav. antjar.]

Defn: A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of one
species of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria).

ANTIARIN
An`ti*a*rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous principle obtained from antiar. Watts.

ANTIASTHMATIC
An`ti*asth*mat"ic, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Antasthmatic.

ANTIATTRITION
An`ti*at*tri"tion, n.

Defn: Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compound
lubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, with
some greasy material; antifriction grease.

ANTIBACCHIUS
An`ti*bac*chi"us, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Bacchius.] (Pros.)

Defn: A foot of three syllables, the first two long, and the last
short.

ANTIBACTERIAL
An`ti*bac*te"ri*al, a. (Med.)
 (a) Inimical to bacteria; -- applied esp. to serum for protection
against bacterial diseases.
 (b) Opposed to the bacterial theory of disease.

ANTIBILLOUS
An`ti*bil"lous, a.

Defn: Counteractive of bilious complaints; tending to relieve
biliousness.

ANTIBODY
An"ti*bod`y, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Any of various bodies or substances in the blood which act in
antagonism to harmful foreign bodies, as toxins or the bacteria
producing the toxins. Normal blood serum apparently contains
variousantibodies, and the introduction of toxins or of foreign cells
also results in the development of their specific antibodies.

ANTIBRACHIAL
An`ti*brach"i*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the antibrachium, or forearm.

ANTIBRACHIUM
An`ti*brach"i*um, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the fore limb between the brachium and the carpus;
the forearm.

ANTIBROMIC
An`ti*bro"mic, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: An agent that destroys offensive smells; a deodorizer.

ANTIBUBONIC
An`ti*bu*bon"ic, a.

Defn: Good or used against bubonic plague; as, antibubonic serum,
obtained from immunized horses; antibubonic vaccine, a sterilized
bouillon culture of the plague bacillus; antibubonic measures.

ANTIBURGHER
An`ti*burgh"er, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who seceded from the Burghers (1747), deeming it improper
to take the Burgess oath.

ANTIC
An"tic, a. Etym: [The same word as antique; cf. It. antico ancient.
See Antique.]

1. Old; antique. (Zoöl.)

Defn: "Lords of antic fame." Phaer.

2. Odd; fantastic; fanciful; grotesque; ludicrous.
The antic postures of a merry-andrew. Addison.
The Saxons . . . worshiped many idols, barbarous in name, some
monstrous, all antic for shape. Fuller.

ANTIC
An"tic, n.

1. A buffoon or merry-andrew; one that practices odd gesticulations;
the Fool of the old play.

2. An odd imagery, device, or tracery; a fantastic figure.
Woven with antics and wild imagery. Spenser.

3. A grotesque trick; a piece of buffoonery; a caper.
And fraught with antics as the Indian bird That writhes and chatters
in her wiry cage. Wordsworth.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: A grotesque representation. [Obs.]

5. An antimask. [Obs. or R.]
Performed by knights and ladies of his court In nature of an antic.
Ford.

ANTIC
An"tic, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anticked, Antickt.]

Defn: To make appear like a buffoon. [Obs.] Shak.

ANTIC
An"tic, v. i.

Defn: To perform antics.

ANTICATARRHAL
An`ti*ca*tarrh`al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Efficacious against catarrh.
 -- n.

Defn: An anticatarrhal remedy.

ANTICATHODE
An`ti*cath"ode, n. (Phys.)

Defn: The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode. Upon it the
cathode rays impinge.

ANTICAUSODIC
An`ti*cau*sod"ic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Anticausotic.

ANTICAUSOTIC
An`ti*cau*sot"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Good against an inflammatory fever.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for such a fever.

ANTICHAMBER
An"ti*cham`ber, n. [Obs.]

Defn: See Antechamber.

ANTICHLOR
An"ti*chlor, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + chlorine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Any substance (but especially sodium hyposulphite) used in
removing the excess of chlorine left in paper pulp or stuffs after
bleaching.

ANTICHRIST
An"ti*christ, n. Etym: [L. Antichristus, Gr.

Defn: A denier or opponent of Christ. Specif.: A great antagonist,
person or power, expected to precede Christ's second coming.

ANTICHRISTIAN
An`ti*chris"tian, a.

Defn: Opposed to the Christian religion.

ANTICHRISTIANISM; ANTICHRISTIANITY
An`ti*chris"tian*ism, An`ti*chris*tian"i*ty, n.

Defn: Opposition or contrariety to the Christian religion.

ANTICHRISTIANLY
An`ti*chris"tian*ly, adv.

Defn: In an antichristian manner.

ANTICHRONICAL
An`ti*chron"ic*al, a.

Defn: Deviating from the proper order of time.
 -- An`ti*chron"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTICHRONISM
An*tich"ro*nism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Deviation from the true order of time; anachronism. [R.]
Selden.

ANTICHTHON
An*tich"thon, n.; pl. Antichthones. Etym: [Gr.

1. A hypothetical earth counter to ours, or on the opposite side of
the sun. Grote.

2. pl.

Defn: Inhabitants of opposite hemispheres. Whewell.

ANTICIPANT
An*tic"i*pant, a. Etym: [L. anticipans, p. pr. of anticipare.]

Defn: Anticipating; expectant; -- with of.
Wakening guilt, anticipant of hell. Southey.

ANTICIPATE
An*tic"i*pate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Anticipated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Anticipating.] Etym: [L. anticipatus, p. p. of anticipare to
anticipate; ante + capere to make. See Capable.]

1. To be before in doing; to do or take before another; to preclude
or prevent by prior action.
To anticipate and prevent the duke's purpose. R. Hall.
He would probably have died by the hand of the executioner, if indeed
the executioner had not been anticipated by the populace. Macaulay.

2. To take up or introduce beforehand, or before the proper or normal
time; to cause to occur earlier or prematurely; as, the advocate has
anticipated a part of his argument.

3. To foresee (a wish, command, etc.) and do beforehand that which
will be desired.

4. To foretaste or foresee; to have a previous view or impression of;
as, to anticipate the pleasures of a visit; to anticipate the evils
of life.

Syn.
 -- To prevent; obviate; preclude; forestall; expect.
 -- To Anticipate, Expect. These words, as here compared, agree in
regarding some future event as about to take place. Expect is the
stringer. It supposes some ground or reason in the mind for
considering the event as likely to happen. Anticipate is, literally,
to take beforehand, and here denotes simply to take into the mind as
conception of the future. Hence, to say, "I did not anticipate a
refusal," expresses something less definite and strong than to say, "
did not expect it." Still, anticipate is a convenient word to be
interchanged with expect in cases where the thought will allow.
Good with bad Expect to hear; supernal grace contending With
sinfulness of men. Milton.
I would not anticipate the relish of any happiness, nor feel the
weight of any misery, before it actually arrives. Spectator.
Timid men were anticipating another civil war. Macaulay.

ANTICIPATION
An*tic`i*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. anticipatio: cf. F. anticipation.]

1. The act of anticipating, taking up, placing, or considering
something beforehand, or before the proper time in natural order.
So shall my anticipation prevent your discovery. Shak.

2. Previous view or impression of what is to happen; instinctive
prevision; foretaste; antepast; as, the anticipation of the joys of
heaven.
The happy anticipation of renewed existence in company with the
spirits of the just. Thodey.

3. Hasty notion; intuitive preconception.
Many men give themselves up to the first anticipations of their
minds. Locke.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: The commencing of one or more tones of a chord with or during
the chord preceding, forming a momentary discord.

Syn.
 -- Preoccupation; preclusion; foretaste; prelibation; antepast;
pregustation; preconception; expectation; foresight; forethought.

ANTICIPATIVE
An*tic"i*pa*tive, a.

Defn: Anticipating, or containing anticipation. "Anticipative of the
feast to come." Cary.
 -- An*tic"i*pa*tive*ly, adv.

ANTICIPATOR
An*tic"i*pa`tor, n.

Defn: One who anticipates.

ANTICIPATORY
An*tic"i*pa*to*ry, a.

Defn: Forecasting; of the nature of anticipation. Owen.
Here is an anticipatory glance of what was to be. J. C. Shairp.

ANTICIVIC
An`ti*civ"ic, n.

Defn: Opposed to citizenship.

ANTICIVISM
An`ti*civ"ism, n.

Defn: Opposition to the body politic of citizens. [Obs.] Carlyle.

ANTICLASTIC
An`ti*clas"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- = Gr.

Defn: Having to opposite curvatures, that is, curved longitudinally
in one direction and transversely in the opposite direction, as the
surface of a saddle.

ANTICLIMAX
An`ti*cli"max, n. (Rhet.)

Defn: A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less important
and striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax. It produces a
ridiculous effect. Example:
Next comes Dalhousie, the great god of war,
Lieutenant-colonel to the Earl ANTICLINAL
An`ti*cli"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: Inclining or dipping in opposite directions. See Synclinal.
Anticlinal line, Anticlinal axis (Geol.), a line from which strata
dip in opposite directions, as from the ridge of a roof.
 -- Anticlinal vertebra (Anat.), one of the dorsal vertebræ, which in
many animals has an upright spine toward which the spines of the
neighboring vertebræ are inclined.

ANTICLINAL
An`ti*cli"nal, n. (Geol.)

Defn: The crest or line in which strata slope or dip in opposite
directions.

ANTICLINE
An"ti*cline, n. [See Anticlinal.] (Geol.)

Defn: A structure of bedded rocks in which the beds on both sides of
an axis or axial plane dip away from the axis; an anticlinal.

ANTICLINORIUM
An`ti*cli*no"ri*um, n.; pl. Anticlinoria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: The upward elevation of the crust of the earth, resulting from
a geanticlinal.

ANTICLY
An"tic*ly, adv.

Defn: Oddly; grotesquely.

ANTIC-MASK
An"tic-mask`, n.

Defn: An antimask. B. Jonson.

ANTICNESS
An"tic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being antic. Ford.

ANTICOHERER
An`ti*co*her"er, n. (Wireless Teleg.)

Defn: A device, one form of which consists of a scratched deposit of
silver on glass, used in connection with the receiving apparatus for
reading wireless signals. The electric waves falling on this
contrivance increase its resistance several times. The anticoherer
can be used in conjunction with a telephone.

ANTICONSTITUTIONAL
An`ti*con`sti*tu"tion*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional.

ANTICONTAGIOUS
An`ti*con*ta"gious, a. (Med.)

Defn: Opposing or destroying contagion.

ANTICONVULSIVE
An`ti*con*vul"sive, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against convulsions. J. Floyer.

ANTICOR
An"ti*cor, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + L. cor heart; cf. F. antic.]
(Far.)

Defn: A dangerous inflammatory swelling of a horse's breast, just
opposite the heart.

ANTICOUS
An*ti"cous, a. Etym: [L. anticus in front, foremost, fr. ante
before.] (Bot.)

Defn: Facing toward the axis of the flower, as in the introrse
anthers of the water lily.

ANTICYCLONE
An"ti*cy`clone, n. (Meteorol.)

Defn: A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regards
direction of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, to
that of a cyclone.
 -- An`ti*cy*clon"ic, a.
 -- An`ti*cy*clon"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTIDIPHTHERITIC
An`ti*diph`the*rit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Destructive to, or hindering the growth of, diphtheria bacilli.
-- n.

Defn: An antidiphtheritic agent.

ANTIDOTAL
An"ti*do`tal(#) a.

Defn: Having the quality an antidote; fitted to counteract the
effects of poison. Sir T. Browne.
 -- An"ti*do`tal*ly, adv.

ANTIDOTARY
An"ti*do`ta*ry, a.

Defn: Antidotal.
 -- n. Antidote; also, a book of antidotes.

ANTIDOTE
An"ti*dote, n. Etym: [L. antidotum, Gr. antidote. See Dose, n.]

1. A remedy to counteract the effects of poison, or of anything
noxious taken into the stomach; -- used with against, for, or to; as,
an antidote against, for, or to, poison.

2. Whatever tends to prevent mischievous effects, or to counteract
evil which something else might produce.

ANTIDOTE
An"ti*dote, v. t.

1. To counteract or prevent the effects of, by giving or taking an
antidote.
Nor could Alexander himself . . . antidote . . . the poisonous
draught, when it had once got into his veins. South.

2. To fortify or preserve by an antidote.

ANTIDOTICAL
An`ti*dot"ic*al, a.

Defn: Serving as an antidote.
 -- An`ti*dot"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTIDROMOUS
An*tid"ro*mous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Changing the direction in the spiral sequence of leaves on a
stem.

ANTIDYSENTERIC
An`ti*dys`en*ter"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against dysentery.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for dysentery.

ANTIEMETIC
An`ti*e*met"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antemetic.

ANTIEPHIALTIC
An`ti*eph`i*al"tic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antephialtic.

ANTIEPILEPTIC
An`ti*ep`i*lep"tic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Antepileptic.

ANTIFEBRILE
An`ti*fe"brile, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: Febrifuge.

ANTIFEBRINE
An`ti*feb"rine, n. (Med.)

Defn: Acetanilide.

ANTI-FEDERALIST
An`ti-fed"er*al*ist, n.

Defn: One of party opposed to a federative government; -- applied
particularly to the party which opposed the adoption of the
constitution of the United States. Pickering.

ANTIFRICTION
An`ti*fric"tion, n.

Defn: Something to lessea. Tending to lessen friction.

ANTIGALASTIC
An`ti*ga*las"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.

Defn: Causing a diminution or a suppression of the secretion of milk.

ANTI-GALLICAN
An`ti-Gal"li*can, a.

Defn: Opposed to what is Gallic or French.

ANTIGRAPH
An"ti*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. antigraphe.]

Defn: A copy or transcript.

ANTIGUGGLER
An`ti*gug"gler n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + guggle or gurgle.]

Defn: A crooked tube of metal, to be introduced into the neck of a
bottle for drawing out the liquid without disturbing the sediment or
causing a gurgling noise.

ANTIHELIX
An`ti*he"lix, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The curved elevation of the cartilage of the ear, within or in
front of the helix. See Ear.

ANTIHEMORRHAGIC
An`ti*hem`or*rhag"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to stop hemorrhage.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for hemorrhage.

ANTIHYDROPHOBIC
An`ti*hy`dro*phob"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting or preventing hydrophobia.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for hydrophobia.

ANTIHYDROPIC
An`ti*hy*drop"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against dropsy.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for dropsy.

ANTIHYPNOTIC
An`ti*hyp*not"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to prevent sleep.
 -- n.

Defn: An antihypnotic agent.

ANTIHYPOCHONDRIAC
An`ti*hyp`o*chon"dri*ac, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteractive of hypochondria.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for hypochondria.

ANTIHYSTERIC
An`ti*hys*ter"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting hysteria.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for hysteria.

ANTIICTERIC
An`ti*ic*ter"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against jaundice.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for jaundice.

ANTI-IMPERIALISM
An`ti-im*pe"ri*al*ism, n.

Defn: Opposition to imperialism; -- applied specif., in the United
States, after the Spanish-American war (1898), to the attitude or
principles of those opposing territorial expansion; in England, of
those, often called Little Englanders, opposing the extension of the
empire and the closer relation of its parts, esp. in matters of
commerce and imperial defense. -- An`ti-im*pe"ri*al*ist, n. -- An`ti-
im*pe`ri*al*is"tic (#), a.

ANTILEGOMENA
An`ti*le*gom"e*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Eccl.)

Defn: Certain books of the New Testament which were for a time not
universally received, but which are now considered canonical. These
are the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Epistles of James and Jude, the
second Epistle of Peter, the second and third Epistles of John, and
the Revelation. The undisputed books are called the Homologoumena.

ANTILIBRATION
An`ti*li*bra"tion, n.

Defn: A balancing; equipoise. [R.] De Quincey.

ANTILITHIC
An`ti*lith"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or to
destroy them when formed.
 -- n.

Defn: An antilithic medicine.

ANTILOGARITHM
An`ti*log"a*rithm, n. (Math.)

Defn: The number corresponding to a logarithm. The word has been
sometimes, though rarely, used to denote the complement of a given
logarithm; also the logarithmic cosine corresponding to a given
logarithmic sine.
 -- An`ti*log`a*rith"mic, a.

ANTILOGOUS
An*til"o*gous, a.

Defn: Of the contrary name or character; -- opposed to analogous.
Antilogous pole (Eccl.), that pole of a crystal which becomes
negatively electrified when heated.

ANTILOGY
An*til"o*gy, n.; pl. Antilogies. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A contradiction between any words or passages in an author. Sir
W. Hamilton.

ANTILOIMIC
An`ti*loi"mic, n. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy against the plague. Brande & C.

ANTILOPINE
An*til"o*pine, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the antelope.

ANTILOQUIST
An*til"o*quist, n.

Defn: A contradicter. [Obs.]

ANTILOQUY
An*til"o*quy, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + L. loqui to speak.]

Defn: Contradiction. [Obs.]

ANTILYSSIC
An`ti*lys"sic, a. & n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Antihydrophobic.

ANTIMACASSAR
An`ti*ma*cas"sar, n.

Defn: A cover for the back or arms of a chair or sofa, etc., to
prevent them from being soiled by macassar or other oil from the
hair.

ANTIMAGISTRICAL
An`ti*ma*gis"tric*al, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + magistrical for
magistratical.]

Defn: Opposed to the office or authority of magistrates. [Obs.]
South.

ANTIMALARIAL
An`ti*ma*la"ri*al, a.

Defn: Good against malaria.

ANTIMASK
An"ti*mask`, n.

Defn: A secondary mask, or grotesque interlude, between the parts of
a serious mask. [Written also anue.] Bacon.

ANTIMASON
An`ti*ma"son, n.

Defn: One opposed to Freemasonry.
 -- An`ti*ma*son"ic, a.

ANTIMASONRY
An`ti*ma"son*ry, n.

Defn: Opposition to Freemasonry.

ANTIMEPHITIC
An`ti*me*phit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against mephitic or deletplwious gases.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy against mephitic gases. Dunglison.

ANTIMERE
An"ti*mere, n. Etym: [. anti- + -mere.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the two halves of bilaterally symmetrical animals; one
of any opposite symmetrical or homotypic parts in animals and plants.

ANTIMETABOLE
An`ti*me*tab"o*le, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure in which the same words or ideas are repeated in
transposed order.

ANTIMETATHESIS
An`ti*me*tath"e*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: An antithesis in which the members are repeated in inverse
order.

ANTIMETER
An*tim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles.
[Obs.]

ANTIMONARCHIC; ANTIMONARCHICAL
An`ti*mo*nar"chic, An`ti*mo*nar"chic*al,

Defn: Opposed to monarchial government. Bp. Benson. Addison.

ANTIMONARCHIST
An`ti*mon"arch*ist, n.

Defn: An enemy to monarchial government.

ANTIMONATE
An`ti*mo"nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of antimonic acid with a base or basic radical.
[Written also antimoniate.]

ANTIMONIAL
An`ti*mo"ni*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to antimony.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A preparation or medicine containing antimony. Antimonial
powder, a consisting of one part oxide of antimony and two parts
phosphate of calcium; -- also called James's powder.

ANTIMONIATED
An`ti*mo"ni*a`ted, a.

Defn: Combined or prepared with antimony; as, antimoniated tartar.

ANTIMONIC
An`ti*mon"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those
compounds of antimony in which this element has its highest
equivalence; as, antimonic acid.

ANTIMONIOUS
An`ti*mo"ni*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those
compounds of antimony in which this element has an equivalence next
lower than the highest; as, antimonious acid.

ANTIMONITE
An"ti*mo*nite`, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of antimonious acid and a base or basic radical.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Stibnite.

ANTIMONIURETED
An`ti*mo"ni*u*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with or containing antimony; as, antimoniureted
hydrogen. [Written also antimoniuretted.]

ANTIMONSOON
An"ti*mon*soon", n. (Meteor.)

Defn: The upper, contrary-moving current of the atmosphere over a
monsoon.

ANTIMONY
An"ti*mo*ny, n. Etym: [LL. antimonium, of unknown origin.] (Chem.)

Defn: An elementary substance, resembling a metal in its appearance
and physical properties, but in its chemical relations belonging to
the class of nonmetallic substances. Atomic weight, 120. Symbol, Sb.

Note: It is of tin-white color, brittle, laminated or crystalline,
fusible, and vaporizable at a rather low temperature. It is used in
some metallic alloys, as type metal and bell metal, and also for
medical preparations, which are in general emetics or cathartics. By
ancient writers, and some moderns, the term is applied to native gray
ore of antimony, or stibnite (the stibium of the Romans, and the
Cervantite, senarmontite, and valentinite are native oxides of
antimony.

ANTINATIONAL
An`ti*na"tion*al, a.

Defn: Antagonistic to one's country or nation, or to a national
government.

ANTINEPHRITIC
An`ti*ne*phrit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting, or deemed of use in, diseases of the kidneys.
 -- n.

Defn: An antinephritic remedy.

ANTINOMIAN
An`ti*no"mi*an, a. Etym: [See Antimony.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Antinomians; opposed to the doctrine
that the moral law is obligatory.

ANTINOMIAN
An`ti*no"mi*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who maintains that, under the gospel dispensation, the
moral law is of no use or obligation, but that faith alone is
necessary to salvation. The sect of Antinomians originated with John
Agricola, in Germany, about the year 1535. Mosheim.

ANTINOMIANISM
An`ti*no"mi*an*ism, n.

Defn: The tenets or practice of Antinomians. South.

ANTINOMIST
An*tin"o*mist, n.

Defn: An Antinomian. [R.] Bp. Sanderson.

ANTINOMY
An*tin"o*my, n.; pl. Antinomies. Etym: [L. antinomia, Gr.

1. Opposition of one law or rule to another law or rule.
Different commentators have deduced from it the very opposite
doctrines. In some instances this apparent antinomy is doubtful. De
Quincey.

2. An opposing law or rule of any kind.
As it were by his own antinomy, or counterstatute. Milton.

3. (Metaph.)

Defn: A contradiction or incompatibility of thought or language; --
in the Kantian philosophy, such a contradiction as arises from the
attempt to apply to the ideas of the reason, relations or attributes
which are appropriate only to the facts or the concepts of
experience.

ANTIOCHIAN
An`ti*o"chi*an, a.

1. Pertaining to Antiochus, a contemporary with Cicero, and the
founder of a sect of philosophers.

2. Of or pertaining to the city of Antioch, in Syria. Antiochian
epoch (Chron.), a method of computing time, from the proclamation of
liberty granted to the city of Antioch, about the time of the battle
of Pharsalia, B.C. 48.

ANTIODONTALGIC
An`ti*o`don*tal"gic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Efficacious in curing toothache.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for toothache.

ANTIORGASTIC
An`ti*or*gas"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to allay venereal excitement or desire; sedative.

ANTIPAPAL
An`ti*pa"pal, a.

Defn: Opposed to the pope or to popery. Milton.

ANTIPARALLEL
An`ti*par"al*lel, a.

Defn: Running in a contrary direction. Hammond.

ANTIPARALLELS
An`ti*par"al*lels, n. pl. (Geom.)

Defn: Straight lines or planes which make angles in some respect
opposite in character to those made by parallel lines or planes.

ANTIPARALYTIC
An`ti*par`a*lyt"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against paralysis.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for paralysis.

ANTIPARALYTICAL
An`ti*par`a*lyt"ic*al, a.

Defn: Antiparalytic.

ANTIPASCH
An"ti*pasch, n. [Pref. anti-+ pasch.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.

ANTIPATHETIC; ANTIPATHETICAL
An`ti*pa*thet"ic, An`ti*pa*thet"ic*al, a.

Defn: Having a natural contrariety, or constitutional aversion, to a
thing; characterized by antipathy; -- often followed by to. Fuller.

ANTIPATHIC
An`ti*path"ic, a. Etym: [NL. antipathicus, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic.

ANTIPATHIST
An*tip"a*thist, n.

Defn: One who has an antipathy. [R.] "Antipathist of light."
Coleridge.

ANTIPATHIZE
An*tip"a*thize, v. i.

Defn: To feel or show antipathy. [R.]

ANTIPATHOUS
An*tip"a*thous, a.

Defn: Having a natural contrariety; adverse; antipathetic. [Obs.]
Beau. & Fl.

ANTIPATHY
An*tip"a*thy, n.; pl. Antipathies. Etym: [L. antipathia, Gr.
antipathie. See Pathos.]

1. Contrariety or opposition in feeling; settled aversion or dislike;
repugnance; distaste.
Inveterate antipathies against particular nations, and passionate
attachments to others, are to be avoided. Washington.

2. Natural contrariety; incompatibility; repugnancy of qualities; as,
oil and water have antipathy.
A habit is generated of thinking that a natural antipathy exists
between hope and reason. I. Taylor.

Note: Any is opposed to sympathy. It is followed by to, against, or
between; also sometimes by for.

Syn.
 -- Hatred; aversion; dislike; disgust; distaste; enmity; ill will;
repugnance; contrariety; opposition. See Dislike.

ANTIPEPTONE
An`ti*pep"tone, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A product of gastric and pancreatic digestion, differing from
hemipeptone in not being decomposed by the continued action of
pancreatic juice.

ANTIPERIODIC
An`ti*pe`ri*od"ic, n. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy possessing the property of preventing the return of
periodic paroxysms, or exacerbations, of disease, as in intermittent
fevers.

ANTIPERISTALTIC
An`ti*per`i*stal"tic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Opposed to, or checking motion; acting upward; -- applied to an
inverted action of the intestinal tube.

ANTIPERISTASIS
An`ti*pe*ris"ta*sis, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Opposition by which the quality opposed asquires strength;
resistance or reaction roused by opposition or by the action of an
opposite principle or quality.

ANTIPERISTATIC
An`ti*per`i*stat"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to antiperistasis.

ANTIPETALOUS
An`ti*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + petal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Standing before a petal, as a stamen.

ANTIPHARMIC
An`ti*phar"mic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Antidotal; alexipharmic.

ANTIPHLOGISTIAN
An`ti*phlo*gis"tian, n.

Defn: An opposer of the theory of phlogiston.

ANTIPHLOGISTIC
An`ti*phlo*gis"tic, a.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: Opposed to the doctrine of phlogiston.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting inflammation.

ANTIPHLOGISTIC
An`ti*phlo*gis"tic, n. (Med.)

Defn: Any medicine or diet which tends to check inflammation. Coxe.

ANTIPHON
An"ti*phon, n. Etym: [LL. antiphona, fr. Gr. Anthem.]

1. A musical response; alternate singing or chanting. See Antiphony,
and Antiphone.

2. A verse said before and after the psalms. Shipley.

ANTIPHONAL
An*tiph"o*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to antiphony, or alternate singing; sung
alternately by a divided choir or opposite choirs. Wheatly.
 -- An*tiph"o*nal*ly, adv.

ANTIPHONAL
An*tiph"o*nal, n.

Defn: A book of antiphons or anthems.

ANTIPHONARY
An*tiph"o*na*ry, n. Etym: [LL. antiphonarium. See Antiphoner.]

Defn: A book containing a collection of antiphons; the book in which
the antiphons of the breviary, with their musical notes, are
contained.

ANTIPHONE
An"ti*phone, n. (Mus.)

Defn: The response which one side of the choir makes to the other in
a chant; alternate chanting or signing.

ANTIPHONER
An*tiph"o*ner, n. Etym: [F. antiphonaire. See Antiphon.]

Defn: A book of antiphons. Chaucer.

ANTIPHONIC
An`ti*phon"ic, a.

Defn: Antiphonal.

ANTIPHONY
An*tiph"o*ny, n.; pl. Antiphonies. Etym: [See Antiphon.]

1. A musical response; also, antiphonal chanting or signing.

2. An anthem or psalm sung alternately by a choir or congregation
divided into two parts. Also figuratively.
O! never more for me shall winds intone, With all your tops, a vast
antiphony. R. Browning.

ANTIPHRASIS
An*tiph"ra*sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: The use of words in a sense opposite to their proper meaning;
as when a court of justice is called a court of vengeance.

ANTIPHRASTIC; ANTIPHRASTICAL
An`ti*phras"tic, An`ti*phras"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to antiphrasis.
 -- An`ti*phras"tic*al*ly, adv.

ANTIPHTHISIC
An`ti*phthis"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Relieving or curing phthisis, or consumption.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for phthisis.

ANTIPHYSICAL
An`ti*phys"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + physical.]

Defn: Contrary to nature; unnatural.

ANTIPHYSICAL
An`ti*phys"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Relieving flatulence; carminative.

ANTIPLASTIC
An`ti*plas"tic, a.

1. Diminishing plasticity.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Preventing or checking the process of healing, or granulation.

ANTIPODAGRIC
An`ti*po*dag"ric, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against gout.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for gout.

ANTIPODAL
An*tip"o*dal, a.

1. Pertaining to the antipodes; situated on the opposite side of the
globe.

2. Diametrically opposite. His antipodal shadow." Lowell.

ANTIPODE
An"ti*pode, n.

Defn: One of the antipodes; anything exactly opposite.
In tale or history your beggar is ever the just antipode to your
king. Lamb.

Note: The singular, antipode, is exceptional in formation, but has
been used by good writers. Its regular English plural would be
ân"tî*podes, the last syllable rhyming with abodes, and this
pronunciation is sometimes heard. The plural form (originally a Latin
word without a singular) is in common use, and is pronounced, after
the English method of Latin, ân*tîp"o*dez.

ANTIPODEAN
An`ti*po"de*an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the antipodes, or the opposite side of the world;
antipodal.

ANTIPODES
An*tip"o*des, n. Etym: [L. pl., fr. Gr.

1. Those who live on the side of the globe diametrically opposite.

2. The country of those who live on the opposite side of the globe.
Latham.

3. Anything exactly opposite or contrary.
Can there be a greater contrariety unto Christ's judgment, a more
perfect antipodes to all that hath hitherto been gospel Hammond.

ANTIPOLE
An"ti*pole, n.

Defn: The opposite pole; anything diametrically opposed. Geo. Eliot.

ANTIPOPE
An"ti*pope, n.

Defn: One who is elected, or claims to be, pope in opposition to the
pope canonically chosen; esp. applied to those popes who resided at
Avignon during the Great Schism.

ANTIPSORIC
An`tip*sor"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of use in curing the itch.
 -- n.

Defn: An antipsoric remedy.

ANTIPTOSIS
An`tip*to"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: The putting of one case for another.

ANTIPUTREFACTIVE; ANTIPUTRESCENT
An`ti*pu`tre*fac"tive, An`ti*pu*tres"cent, a.

Defn: Counteracting, or preserving from, putrefaction; antiseptic.

ANTIPYIC
An`ti*py"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Checking or preventing suppuration.
 -- n.

Defn: An antipyic medicine.

ANTIPYRESIS
An`ti*py*re"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The condition or state of being free from fever.

ANTIPYRETIC
An`ti*py*ret"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Efficacious in preventing or allaying fever.
 -- n.

Defn: A febrifuge.

ANTIPYRINE
An`ti*py"rine, n. (Med.)

Defn: An artificial alkaloid, believed to be efficient in abating
fever.

ANTIPYROTIC
An`ti*py*rot"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against burns or pyrosis.
 -- n.

Defn: Anything of use in preventing or healing burns or pyrosis.

ANTIQUARIAN
An`ti*qua"ri*an, a. Etym: [See Antiquary].

Defn: Pertaining to antiquaries, or to antiquity; as, antiquarian
literature.

ANTIQUARIAN
An`ti*qua"ri*an, n.

1. An antiquary.

2. A drawing paper of large size. See under Paper, n.

ANTIQUARIANISM
An`ti*qua"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: Character of an antiquary; study or love of antiquities.
Warburton.

ANTIQUARIANIZE
An`ti*qua"ri*an*ize, v. i.

Defn: To act the part of an antiquary. [Colloq.]

ANTIQUARY
An"ti*qua*ry, a. Etym: [L. antiquarius, fr. antiquus ancient. See
Antique.]

Defn: Pertaining to antiquity. [R.] "Instructed by the antiquary
times." Shak.

ANTIQUARY
An"ti*qua*ry, n.; pl. Antiquaries.

Defn: One devoted to the study of ancient times through their relics,
as inscriptions, monuments, remains of ancient habitations, statues,
coins, manuscripts, etc.; one who searches for and studies the relics
of antiquity.

ANTIQUATE
An"ti*quate, v. t. Etym: [L. antiquatus, p. p. of antiquare, fr.
antiquus ancient.]

Defn: To make old, or obsolete; to make antique; to make old in such
a degree as to put out of use; hence, to make void, or abrogate.
Christianity might reasonably introduce new laws, and antiquate or
abrogate old one. Sir M. Hale.

ANTIQUATED
An"ti*qua`ted, a.

Defn: Grown old. Hence: Bygone; obsolete; out of use; old-fashioned;
as, an antiquated law. "Antiquated words." Dryden.
Old Janet, for so he understood his antiquated attendant was
denominated. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Ancient; old; antique; obsolete. See Ancient.

ANTIQUATEDNESS
An"ti*qua`ted*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being antiquated.

ANTIQUATENESS
An"ti*quate*ness, n.

Defn: Antiquatedness. [Obs.]

ANTIQUATION
An`ti*qua"tion, n. Etym: [L. antiquatio, fr. antiquare.]

Defn: The act of making antiquated, or the state of being antiquated.
Beaumont.

ANTIQUE
An*tique", a. Etym: [F., fr. L. antiquus old, ancient, equiv. to
anticus, from ante before. Cf. Antic.]

1. Old; ancient; of genuine antiquity; as, an antique statue. In this
sense it usually refers to the flourishing ages of Greece and Rome.
For the antique world excess and pride did hate. Spenser.

2. Old, as respects the present age, or a modern period of time; of
old fashion; antiquated; as, an antique robe. "Antique words."
Spenser.

3. Made in imitation of antiquity; as, the antique style of Thomson's
"Castle of Indolence."

4. Odd; fantastic. [In this sense, written antic.]

Syn.
 -- Ancient; antiquated; obsolete; antic; old-fashioned; old. See
Ancient.

ANTIQUE
An*tique", n. Etym: [F. See Antique, a. ]

Defn: In general, anything very old; but in a more limited sense, a
relic or object of ancient art; collectively, the antique, the
remains of ancient art, as busts, statues, paintings, and vases.
Misshapen monuments and maimed antiques. Byron.

ANTIQUELY
An*tique"ly, adv.

Defn: In an antique manner.

ANTIQUENESS
An*tique"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being antique; an appearance of ancient origin
and workmanship.
We may discover something venerable in the antiqueness of the work.
Addison.

ANTIQUIST
An"ti*quist, n.

Defn: An antiquary; a collector of antiques. [R.] Pinkerton.

ANTIQUITARIAN
An*tiq`ui*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: An admirer of antiquity.

Note: [Used by Milton in a disparaging sense.] [Obs.]

ANTIQUITY
An*tiq"ui*ty, n.; pl. Antiquities. Etym: [L. antiquitas, fr.
antiquus: cf. F. antiquité. See Antique.]

1. The quality of being ancient; ancientness; great age; as, a statue
of remarkable antiquity; a family of great antiquity.

2. Old age. [Obs.]
It not your voice broken . . . and every part about you blasted with
antiquity Shak.

3. Ancient times; former ages; times long since past; as, Cicero was
an eloquent orator of antiquity.

4. The ancients; the people of ancient times.
That such pillars were raised by Seth all antiquity has Sir W.
Raleigh.

5. An old gentleman. [Obs.]
You are a shrewd antiquity, neighbor Clench. B. Jonson.

6. A relic or monument of ancient times; as, a coin, a statue, etc. ;
an ancient institution.

Note: [In this sense, usually in the plural.] "Heathen antiquities."
Bacon.

ANTIRACHITIC
An`ti*ra*chit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against the rickets.

ANTIRENTER
An`ti*rent"er, n.

Defn: One opposed to the payment of rent; esp. one of those who in
1840-47 resisted the collection of rents claimed by the patroons from
the settlers on certain manorial lands in the State of New York.
 -- An`ti*rent"ism, n.

ANTISABBATARIAN
An`ti*sab`ba*ta"ri*an, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of a sect which opposes the observance of the Christian
Sabbath.

ANTISACERDOTAL
An`ti*sac`er*do"tal, a.

Defn: Hostile to priests or the priesthood. Waterland.

ANTISCIANS; ANTISCII
An*tis"cians, An*tis"ci*i, n. pl. Etym: [L. antiscii, Gr.

Defn: The inhabitants of the earth, living on different sides of the
equator, whose shadows at noon are cast in opposite directions.
The inhabitants of the north and south temperate zones are always
Antiscians. Brande & C.

ANTISCOLETIC; ANTISCOLIC
An`ti*sco*let"ic, An`ti*scol"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Anthelmintic.

ANTISCORBUTIC
An`ti*scor*bu"tic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Counteracting scurvy.
 -- n.

Defn: A remedy for scurvy.

ANTISCORBUTICAL
An`ti*scor*bu"tic*al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Antiscorbutic.

ANTISCRIPTURAL
An`ti*scrip"tur*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to, or not in accordance with, the Holy Scriptures.

ANTI-SEMITISM
An`ti-Sem"i*tism, n.

Defn: Opposition to, or hatred of, Semites, esp. Jews. -- An`ti-
Sem"ite (#), n. -- An`ti-Sem*it"ic (#), a.

ANTISEPALOUS
An`ti*sep"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + sepal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Standing before a sepal, or calyx leaf.

ANTISEPSIS
An`ti*sep"sis, n. [NL. See Anti-; Sepsis.]

Defn: Prevention of sepsis by excluding or destroying microorganisms.

ANTISEPTIC; ANTISEPTICAL
An`ti*sep"tic, An`ti*sep"tic*al, a.

Defn: Counteracting or preventing putrefaction, or a putrescent
tendency in the system; antiputrefactive. Antiseptic surgery, that
system of surgical practice which insists upon a systematic use of
antiseptics in the performance of operations and the dressing of
wounds.

ANTISEPTIC
An`ti*sep"tic, n.

Defn: A substance which prevents or retards putrefaction, or
destroys, or protects from, putrefactive organisms; as, salt,
carbolic acid, alcohol, cinchona.

ANTISEPTICALLY
An`ti*sep"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By means of antiseptics.

ANTISIALAGOGUE
An`ti*si*al"a*gogue, a. (Med.)

Defn: Checking the flow of saliva.

ANTISIALAGOGUE
An`ti*si*al"a*gogue, n.

Defn: A remedy against excessive salivation.

ANTISLAVERY
An`ti*slav"er*y, a.

Defn: Opposed to slavery.
 -- n.

Defn: Opposition to slavery.

ANTISOCIAL
An`ti*so"cial, a.

Defn: Tending to interrupt or destroy social intercourse; averse to
society, or hostile to its existence; as, antisocial principles.

ANTISOCIALIST
An`ti*so"cial*ist, n.

Defn: One opposed to the doctrines and practices of socialists or
socialism.

ANTISOLAR
An`ti*so"lar, a.

Defn: Opposite to the sun; -- said of the point in the heavens 180º
distant from the sun.

ANTISPASMODIC
An`ti*spas*mod"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against spasms.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine which prevents or allays spasms or convulsions.

ANTISPAST
An"ti*spast, n. Etym: [L. antispastus, Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and the
second and third long.

ANTISPASTIC
An`ti*spas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. Antispast.] (Med.)
(a) Believed to cause a revulsion of fluids or of humors from one
part to another. [Obs.]
(b) Counteracting spasms; antispasmodic.
 -- n.

Defn: An antispastic agent.

ANTISPLENETIC
An`ti*splen"e*tic (Splenetic, 277), a.

Defn: Good as a remedy against disease of the spleen.
 -- n.

Defn: An antisplenetic medicine.

ANTISTROPHE
An*tis"tro*phe, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Strophe.]

1. In Greek choruses and dances, the returning of the chorus, exactly
answering to a previous strophe or movement from right to left.
Hence: The lines of this part of the choral song.
It was customary, on some occasions, to dance round the altars whilst
they sang the sacred hymns, which consisted of three stanzas or
parts; the first of which, called strophe, was sung in turning from
east to west; the other, named antistrophe, in returning from west to
east; then they stood before the altar, and sang the epode, which was
the last part of the song. Abp. Potter.

2. (Rhet.)
(a) The repetition of words in an inverse order; as, the master of
the servant and the servant of the master.
(b) The retort or turning of an adversary's plea against him.

ANTISTROPHIC
An`ti*stroph"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an antistrophe.

ANTISTROPHON
An*tis"tro*phon, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: An argument retorted on an opponent. Milton.

ANTISTRUMATIC
An`ti*stru"mat"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Antistrumous.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for scrofula.

ANTISTRUMOUS
An`ti*stru"mous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Good against scrofulous disorders. Johnson. Wiseman.

ANTISYPHILITIC
An`ti*syph`i*lit"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Efficacious against syphilis.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for syphilis.

ANTITHEISM
An`ti*the"ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine of antitheists.
 -- An`ti*the*is"tic, a.

ANTITHEIST
An`ti*the"ist, n.

Defn: A disbeliever in the existence of God.

ANTITHESIS
An*tith"e*sis, n.; pl. Antitheses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Thesis.]

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: An opposition or contrast of words or sentiments occurring in
the same sentence; as, "The prodigal robs his heir; the miser robs
himself." "He had covertly shot at Cromwell; he how openly aimed at
the Queen."

2. The second of two clauses forming an antithesis.

3. Opposition; contrast.

ANTITHET
An"ti*thet, n. Etym: [L. antitheton, fr. Gr.

Defn: An antithetic or contrasted statement. Bacon.

ANTITHETIC; ANTITHETICAL
An`ti*thet"ic, An`ti*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to antithesis, or opposition of words and
sentiments; containing, or of the nature of, antithesis; contrasted.

ANTITHETICALLY
An`ti*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way antithesis.

ANTITOXIN; ANTITOXINE
An`ti*tox"in, An`ti*tox"ine, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + toxin.]

Defn: A substance (sometimes the product of a specific micro-organism
and sometimes naturally present in the blood or tissues of an
animal), capable of producing immunity from certain diseases, or of
counteracting the poisonous effects of pathogenic bacteria.

ANTI-TRADE
An"ti-trade`, n.

Defn: A tropical wind blowing steadily in a direction opposite to the
trade wind.

ANTITRAGUS
An*tit"ra*gus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A prominence on the lower posterior portion of the concha of
the external ear, opposite the tragus. See Ear.

ANTITROCHANTER
An`ti*tro*chan"ter, n. (Anat.)

Defn: An articular surface on the ilium of birds against which the
great trochanter of the femur plays.

ANTITROPAL; ANTITROPOUS
An*tit"ro*pal, An*tit"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: At the extremity most remote from the hilum, as the embryo, or
inverted with respect to the seed, as the radicle. Lindley.

ANTITYPAL
An"ti*ty`pal, a.

Defn: Antitypical. [R.]

ANTITYPE
An"ti*type, n. Etym: [Gr. Type.]

Defn: That of which the type pattern or representation; that which is
represented by the type or symbol.

ANTITYPICAL
An`ti*typ"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an antitype; explaining the type.
 -- An`ti*typ"ic*al*ly, adv.

ANTITYPOUS
An*tit"y*pous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Resisting blows; hard. [Obs.] Cudworth.

ANTITYPY
An*tit"y*py, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Opposition or resistance of matter to force. [R.] Sir W.
Hamilton.

ANTIVACCINATION
An`ti*vac`ci*na"tion, n.

Defn: Opposition to vaccination. London Times.

ANTIVACCINATIONIST
An`ti*vac`ci*na"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An antivaccinist.

ANTIVACCINIST
An`ti*vac"ci*nist, n.

Defn: One opposed to vaccination.

ANTIVARIOLOUS
An`ti*va*ri"o*lous, a.

Defn: Preventing the contagion of smallpox.

ANTIVENEREAL
An`ti*ve*ne"re*al, a.

Defn: Good against venereal poison; antisyphilitic.

ANTIVENIN
An`ti*ve"nin, n. [Written also antivenen, antivenine.] [Pref. anti- +
L. venenum poison.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The serum of blood rendered antitoxic to a venom by repeated
injections of small doses of the venom.

ANTIVIVISECTION
An`ti*viv`i*sec"tion, n.

Defn: Opposition to vivisection.

ANTIVIVISECTIONIST
An`ti*viv`i*sec"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One opposed to vivisection

ANTIZYMIC
An`ti*zym"ic, a.

Defn: Preventing fermentation.

ANTIZYMOTIC
An`ti*zy*mot"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Preventing fermentation or decomposition.
 -- n.

Defn: An agent so used.

ANTLER
Ant"ler, n. Etym: [OE. auntelere, OF. antoillier, andoiller,
endouiller, fr. F. andouiller, fr. an assumed LL. antocularis, fr. L.
ante before + oculus eye. See Ocular.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervine
animal, as of a stag.
Huge stags with sixteen antlers. Macaulay.

Note: The branch next to the head is called the brow antler, and the
branch next above, the bez antler, or bay antler. The main stem is
the beam, and the branches are often called tynes. Antlers are
deciduous bony (not horny) growths, and are covered with a periosteum
while growing. See Velvet. Antler moth (Zoöl.), a destructive
European moth (Cerapteryx graminis), which devastates grass lands.

ANTLERED
Ant"lered, a.

Defn: Furnished with antlers.
The antlered stag. Cowper.

ANTLIA
Ant"li*a, n.; pl. Antilæ. Etym: [L., a pump, Gr, (Zoöl.)

Defn: The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. See
Lepidoptera.

ANT-LION
Ant"-li`on, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A neuropterous insect, the larva of which makes in the sand a
pitfall to capture ants, etc. The common American species is
Myrmeleon obsoletus, the European is M. formicarius.

ANTOECI; ANTOECIANS
An*toe"ci, An*toe"*cians, n. pl. Etym: [NL. antoeci, fr. Gr. pl.

Defn: Those who live under the same meridian, but on opposite
parallels of latitude, north and south of the equator.

ANTONOMASIA
An`to*no*ma"si*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: The use of some epithet or the name of some office, dignity, or
the like, instead of the proper name of the person; as when his
majesty is used for a king, or when, instead of Aristotle, we say,
the philosopher; or, conversely, the use of a proper name instead of
an appellative, as when a wise man is called a Solomon, or an eminent
orator a Cicero.

ANTONOMASTIC
An`to*no*mas"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, antonomasia.
 -- An`to*no*mas"tic*al*ly, adv.

ANTONOMASY
An*ton"o*ma*sy, n.

Defn: Antonomasia.

ANTONYM
An"to*nym, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A word of opposite meaning; a counterterm; -- used as a
correlative of synonym. [R.] C. J. Smith.

ANTORBITAL
Ant*or"bit*al, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + orbital.] (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or situated in, the region of the front of the
orbit.
 -- n.

Defn: The antorbital bone.

ANTORGASTIC
Ant`or*gas"tic, a.

Defn: See Antiorgastic.

ANTOZONE
Ant*o"zone, n. Etym: [Pref. anti- + ozone.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound formerly supposed to be modification of oxygen, but
now known to be hydrogen dioxide; -- so called because apparently
antagonistic to ozone, converting it into ordinary oxygen.

ANTRAL
An"tral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Relating to an antrum.

ANTRE
An"tre, n. Etym: [F. antre, L. antrum, fr. Gr.

Defn: A cavern. [Obs.] Shak.

ANTRORSE
An*trorse", a. Etym: [From L. ante + versun turned; apparently formed
in imitation of re.] (Bot.)

Defn: Forward or upward in direction. Gray.

ANTROVERT
An`tro*vert", v. t.

Defn: To bend forward. [R.] Owen.

ANTRUM
An"trum, n.; pl. Antra. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus. Huxley.

ANTRUSTION
An*trus"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. antrustio.]

Defn: A vassal or voluntary follower of Frankish princes in their
enterprises.

ANT THRUSH
Ant" thrush`. (Zoöl.)
(a) One of several species of tropical birds, of the Old World, of
the genus Pitta, somewhat resembling the thrushes, and feeding
chiefly on ants.
(b) See Ant bird, under Ant.

ANUBIS
'd8A*nu"bis, n. Etym: [L.] (Myth.)

Defn: An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits,
represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox.

ANURA
A*nu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence of
a tail, as the frogs and toads. [Written also anoura.]

ANUROUS
A*nu"rous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of a tail, as the frogs and toads. [Also written
anourous.]

ANURY
An"u*ry, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury.

ANUS
A"nus, n. Etym: [L., prob. for asnus: cf. Gr. as.] (Anat.)

Defn: The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through which
the excrements are expelled.

ANVIL
An"vil, n. Etym: [OE. anvelt, anfelt, anefelt, AS. anfilt, onfilt; of
uncertain origin; cf. OHG. anafalz, D. aanbeld.]

1. An iron block, usually with a steel face, upon which metals are
hammered and shaped.

2. Anything resembling an anvil in shape or use. Specifically
(Anat.),

Defn: the incus. See Incus. To be on the anvil, to be in a state of
discussion, formation, or preparation, as when a scheme or measure is
forming, but not matured. Swift.

ANVIL
An"vil, v. t.

Defn: To form or shape on an anvil; to hammer out; as, anviled armor.
Beau. & Fl.

ANXIETUDE
Anx*i"e*tude, n. Etym: [L. anxietudo.]

Defn: The state of being anxious; anxiety. [R.]

ANXIETY
Anx*i"e*ty, n.; pl. Anxieties. Etym: [L. anxietas, fr. anxius: cf. F.
anxiété. See Anxious.]

1. Concern or solicitude respecting some thing o

2. Eager desire. J. D. Forbes

3. (Med.)

Defn: A state of restlessness and agitation, often with general
indisposition and a distressing sense of oppression at the
epigastrium. Dunglison.

Syn.
 -- Care; solicitude; foreboding; uneasiness; perplexity;
disquietude; disquiet; trouble; apprehension; restlessness. See Care.

ANXIOUS
Anx"ious, a. Etym: [L. anxius, fr. angere to cause pain, choke; akin
to Gr. Anger.]

1. Full of anxiety or disquietude; greatly concerned or solicitous,
esp. respecting future or unknown; being in painful suspense; --
applied to persons; as, anxious for the issue of a battle.

2. Accompanied with, or causing, anxiety; worrying; -- applied to
things; as, anxious labor.
The sweet of life, from which God hath bid dwell far off all anxious
cares. Milton.

3. Earnestly desirous; as, anxious to please.
He sneers alike at those who are anxious to preserve and at those who
are eager for reform. Macaulay.

Note: Anxious is followed by for, about, concerning, etc., before the
object of solicitude.

Syn.
 -- Solicitous; careful; uneasy; unquiet; restless; concerned;
disturbed; watchful.

ANXIOUSLY
Anx"ious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an anxious manner; with painful uncertainty; solicitously.

ANXIOUSNESS
Anx"ious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being anxious; great solicitude; anxiety.

ANY
A"ny, a. & pron. Etym: [OE. æni, æni, eni, ani, oni, AS. ænig, fr. an
one. It is akin to OS. enig, OHG. einic, G. einig, D. eenig. See
One.]

1. One indifferently, out of an indefinite number; one indefinitely,
whosoever or whatsoever it may be.

Note: Any is often used in denying or asserting without limitation;
as, this thing ought not be done at any time; I ask any one to answer
my question.
No man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the
Father, save the Son. Matt. xi. 27.

2. Some, of whatever kind, quantity, or number; as, are there any
witnesses present are there any other houses like it "Who will show
us any good" Ps. iv. 6.

Note: It is often used, either in the singular or the plural, as a
pronoun, the person or thing being understood; anybody; anyone; (pl.)
any persons.
If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, . . . and it shall be
given him. Jas. i. 5.
That if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he
might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. Acts ix. 2.
At any rate, In any case, whatever may be the state of affairs;
anyhow.

ANY
A"ny, adv.

Defn: To any extent; in any degree; at all.
You are not to go loose any longer. Shak.
Before you go any farther. Steele.

ANYBODY
A"ny*bod*y, n.

1. Any one out of an indefinite number of persons; anyone; any
person.
His Majesty could not keep any secret from anybody. Macaulay.

2. A person of consideration or standing. [Colloq.]
All the men belonged exclusively to the mechanical and shopkeeping
classes, and there was not a single banker or anybody in the list.
Lond. Sat. Rev.

ANYHOW
A"ny*how`, adv.

Defn: In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event.
Anyhow, it must be acknowledged to be not a simple selforiginated
error. J. H. Newman.
Anyhow, the languages of the two nations were closely allied. E. A.
Freeman.

ANYONE
A"ny*one, n.

Defn: One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody.

Note: [Commonly written as two words.]

ANYTHING
A"ny*thing, n.

1. Any object, act, state, event, or fact whatever; thing of any
kind; something or other; aught; as, I would not do it for anything.
Did you ever know of anything so unlucky A. Trollope.
They do not know that anything is amiss with them. W. G. Sumner.

2. Expressing an indefinite comparison; -- with as or like. [Colloq.
or Lowx]
I fear your girl will grow as proud as anything. Richardson.

Note: Any thing, written as two words, is now commonly used in
contradistinction to any person or anybody. Formerly it was also
separated when used in the wider sense. "Necessity drove them to
undertake any thing and venture any thing." De Foe. Anything but, not
at all or in any respect. "The battle was a rare one, and the victory
anything but secure." Hawthorne.
 -- Anything like, in any respect; at all; as, I can not give
anything like a fair sketch of his trials.

ANYTHING
A"ny*thing, adv.

Defn: In any measure; anywise; at all.
Mine old good will and hearty affection towards you is not . . .
anything at all quailed. Robynson (More's Utopia).

ANYTHINGARIAN
A`ny*thing*a"ri*an, n.

Defn: One who holds to no particular creed or dogma.

ANYWAY; ANYWAYS
A"ny*way, A"ny*ways, adv.

Defn: Anywise; at all. Tennyson. Southey.

ANYWHERE
A"ny*where, adv.

Defn: In any place. Udall.

ANYWHITHER
A"ny*whith`er, adv.

Defn: To or towards any place. [Archaic] De Foe.

ANYWISE
A"ny*wise, adv.

Defn: In any wise or way; at all. "Anywise essential." Burke.

AONIAN
A*o"ni*an, a. Etym: [From Aonia, a part of Boeotia, in Greece.]

Defn: Pertaining to Aonia, Boeotia, or to the Muses, who were
supposed to dwell there. Aonian fount, the fountain of Aganippe, at
the foot of Mount Helicon, not far from Thebes, and sacred to the
Muses.

AORIST
A"o*rist, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A tense in the Greek language, which expresses an action as
completed in past time, but leaves it, in other respects, wholly
indeterminate.

AORISTIC
A`o*ris"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Indefinite; pertaining to the aorist tense.

AORTA
A*or"ta, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The great artery which carries the blood from the heart to all
parts of the body except the lungs; the main trunk of the arterial
system.

Note: In fishes and the early stages of all higher vertebrates the
aorta divides near its origin into several branches (the aortic
arches) which pass in pairs round the oesophagus and unite to form
the systemic aorta. One or more pairs of these arches persist in
amphibia and reptiles, but only one arch in birds and mammals, this
being on the right side in the former, and on the left in the latter.

AORTIC
A*or"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the aorta.

AORTITIS
A`or*ti"tis, n. Etym: [Aorta + -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the aorta.

AOUDAD
A"ou*dad, n. Etym: [The Moorish name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African sheeplike quadruped (the Ammotragus tragelaphus)
having a long mane on the breast and fore legs. It is, perhaps, the
chamois of the Old Testament.

APACE
A*pace", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + pace. OE. a pas at a walk, in which a
is the article. See Pace.]

Defn: With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily.
His dewy locks did drop with brine apace. Spenser.
A visible triumph of the gospel drawapace. I. Taylor.

APACHES
A*pa"ches, n. pl.; sing. Apache. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A group of nomadic North American Indians including several
tribes native of Arizona, New Mexico, etc.

APAGOGE
Ap`a*go"ge, n. Etym: [Gr. (Logic)

Defn: An indirect argument which proves a thing by showing the
impossibility or absurdity of the contrary.

APAGOGIC; APAGOGICAL
Ap`a*gog"ic, Ap`a*gog"ic*al, a.

Defn: Proving indirectly, by showing the absurdity, or impossibility
of the contrary. Bp. Berkeley.

APAID
A*paid", a.

Defn: Paid; pleased. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APAIR
A*pair", v. t. & i.

Defn: To impair or become impaired; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APALACHIAN
Ap`a*la"chi*an, a.

Defn: See Appalachian.

APANAGE
Ap"an*age, n.

Defn: Same as Appanage.

APANTHROPY
A*pan"thro*py, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An aversion to the company of men; a love of solitude.

APAR; APARA
A"par, A"pa*ra, n. Etym: [Native name apara.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Mataco.

APAREJO
A`pa*re"jo, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A kind of pack saddle used in the American military service and
among the Spanish Americans. It is made of leather stuffed with hay,
moss, or the like.

APARITHMESIS
Ap`a*rith"me*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: Enumeration of parts or particulars.

APART
A*part", adv. Etym: [F. à part; (L. ad) + part part. See Part.]

1. Separately, in regard to space or company; in a state of
separation as to place; aside.
Others apart sat on a hill retired. Milton.
The Lord hath set apart him that is godly for himself. Ps. iv. 3.

2. In a state of separation, of exclusion, or of distinction, as to
purpose, use, or character, or as a matter of thought; separately;
independently; as, consider the two propositions apart.

3. Aside; away. "Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity
of naughtiness." Jas. i. 21.
Let Pleasure go, put Care apart. Keble.

4. In two or more parts; asunder; to piece; as, to take a piece of
machinery apart.

APARTMENT
A*part"ment, n. Etym: [F. appartement; cf. It. appartamento, fr.
appartare to separate, set apart; all fr. L. ad + pars, partis, part.
See Apart.]

1. A room in a building; a division in a house, separated from others
by partitions. Fielding.

2. A set or suite of rooms. De Quincey.

3. A compartment. [Obs.] Pope.

APARTMENT HOUSE
A*part"ment house.

Defn: A building comprising a number of suites designed for separate
housekeeping tenements, but having conveniences, such as heat, light,
elevator service, etc., furnished in common; -- often distinguished
in the United States from a flat house.

APARTNESS
A*part"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of standing apart.

APASTRON
Ap*as"tron, n. Etym: [Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: That point in the orbit of a double star where the smaller star
is farthest from its primary.

APATHETIC; APATHETICAL
Ap`a*thet"ic, Ap`a*thet"ic*al a. Etym: [See Apathy.]

Defn: Void of feeling; not susceptible of deep emotion; passionless;
indifferent.

APATHETICALLY
Ap`a*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apathetic manner.

APATHIST
Ap"a*thist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apathiste.]

Defn: One who is destitute of feeling.

APATHISTICAL
Ap`a*this"tic*al, a.

Defn: Apathetic; une motional. [R.]

APATHY
Ap"a*thy, n.; pl. Apathies. Etym: [L. apathia, Gr. apathie. See
Pathos.]

Defn: Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement;
dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied to
the mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference,
incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertion
by pleasure, pain, or passion. "The apathy of despair." Macaulay.
A certain apathy or sluggishness in his nature which led him . . . to
leave events to take their own course. Prescott.
According to the Stoics, apathy meant the extinction of the passions
by the ascendency of reason. Fleming.

Note: In the first ages of the church, the Christians adopted the
term to express a contempt of earthly concerns.

Syn.
 -- Insensibility; unfeelingness; indifference; unconcern; stoicism;
supineness; sluggishness.

APATITE
Ap"a*tite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Native phosphate of lime, occurring usually in six-sided
prisms, color often pale green, transparent or translucent.

APAUME
A`pau`mé", n.

Defn: See Appaum.

APE
Ape, n. Etym: [AS. apa; akin to D. aap, OHG. affo, G. affe, Icel.
api, Sw. apa, Dan. abe, W. epa.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadæ, having teeth
of the same number and form as in man, having teeth of the same
number and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheek
pouches. The name is applied esp. to species of the genus Hylobates,
and is sometimes used as a general term for all Quadrumana. The
higher forms, the gorilla, chimpanzee, and ourang, are often called
anthropoid apes or man apes.

Note: The ape of the Old Testament was prqobably the rhesus monkey of
India, and allied forms.

2. One who imitates servilely (in allusion to the manners of the
ape); a mimic. Byron.

3. A dupe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APE
Ape, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aped; p. pr. & vb. n. Aping.]

Defn: To mimic, as an ape imitates human actions; to imitate or
follow servilely or irrationally. "How he apes his sire." Addison.
The people of England will not ape the fashions they have never
tried. Burke.

APEAK
A*peak", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + peak. Cf. F. à pic vertically.]
(Naut.)

Defn: In a vertical line. The anchor in apeak, when the cable has
been sufficiently hove in to bring the ship over it, and the ship is
them said to be hove apeak. [Spelt also apeek.]

APEHOOD
Ape"hood, n.

Defn: The state of being an ape.

APELLOUS
A*pel"lous, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + L. pellis skin.]

Defn: Destitute of skin. Brande & C.

APENNINE
Ap"en*nine, a. Etym: [L. Apenninus, fr. Celtic pen, or ben, peak,
mountain.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Apennines, a chain of
mountains extending through Italy.

APEPSY
A*pep"sy, n. Etym: [NL. apepsia, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Defective digestion, indigestion. Coxe.

APER
Ap"er, n.

Defn: One who apes.

APERCU
A`per`çu" (a`pâr`sus"), n.; pl. Aperçus (-sus"). [F., prop. p. p. of
apercevoir to perceive.]

1.

Defn: A first view or glance, or the perception or estimation so
obtained; an immediate apprehension or insight, appreciative rather
than analytic.

The main object being to develop the several aperçus or insights
which furnish the method of such psychology.
W. T. Harris.

A series of partial and more or less disparate aperçus or outlooks;
each for itself a center of experience.
James Ward.

2.  Hence, a brief or detached view; conspectus; sketch.

APEREA
A*pe"re*a, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea).

APERIENT
A*pe"ri*ent, a. Etym: [L. aperiens, p. pr. of aperire to uncover,
open; ab + parire, parere, to bring forth, produce. Cf. Cover,
Overt.] (Med.)

Defn: Gently opening the bowels; laxative.
 -- n.

Defn: An aperient medicine or food. Arbuthnot.

APERITIVE
A*per"i*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. apéritif, fr. L. aperire.]

Defn: Serving to open; aperient. Harvey.

APERT
A*pert", a. Etym: [OF. apert, L. apertus, p. p. of aperire. See
Aperient, and cf. Pert, a.]

Defn: Open; ev [Archaic] Fotherby.

APERT
A*pert", adv.

Defn: Openly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APERTION
A*per"tion, n. Etym: [L. apertio.]

Defn: The act of opening; an opening; an aperture. [Archaic] Wiseman.

APERTLY
A*pert"ly, adv.

Defn: Openly; clearly. [Archaic]

APERTNESS
A*pert"ness, n.

Defn: Openness; frankness. [Archaic]

APERTURE
Ap"er*ture, n. Etym: [L. apertura, fr. aperire. See Aperient.]

1. The act of opening. [Obs.]

2. An opening; an open space; a gap, cleft, or chasm; a passage
perforated; a hole; as, an aperture in a wall.
An aperture between the mountains. Gilpin.
The back aperture of the nostrils. Owen.

3. (Opt.)

Defn: The diameter of the exposed part of the object glass of a
telescope or other optical instrument; as, a telescope of four-inch
aperture.

Note: The aperture of microscopes is often expressed in degrees,
called also the angular aperture, which signifies the angular breadth
of the pencil of light which the instrument transmits from the object
or point viewed; as, a microscope of 100º aperture.

APERY
Ap"er*y, n.; pl. Aperies.

1. A place where apes are kept. [R.] Kingsley.

2. The practice of aping; an apish action. Coleridge.

APETALOUS
A*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + petal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having no petals, or flower leaves. [See Illust. under Anther].

APETALOUSNESS
A*pet"al*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being apetalous.

APEX
A"pex, n.; pl. E. Apexes; L. Apices. Etym: [L.]

1. The tip, top, point, or angular summit of anything; as, the apex
of a mountain, spire, or cone; the apex, or tip, of a leaf.

2. (Mining)

Defn: The end or edge of a vein nearest the surface. [U.S.] Apex of
the earth's motion (Astron.), that point of the heavens toward which
the earth is moving in its orbit.

APHAERESIS
A*phær"e*sis, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Same as Apheresis.

APHAKIA
A*pha"ki*a, n. Etym: [NL.; Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An anomalous state of refraction caused by the absence of the
crystalline lens, as after operations for cataract. The remedy is the
use of powerful convex lenses. Dunglison.

APHAKIAL
A*pha"ki*al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to aphakia; as, aphakial eyes.

APHANIPTERA
Aph`a*nip"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of wingless insects, of which the flea in the type. See
Flea.

APHANIPTEROUS
Aph`a*nip"ter*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Aphaniptera.

APHANITE
Aph"a*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A very compact, dark-colored

APHANITIC
Aph`a*nit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Resembling aphanite; having a very fine-grained structure.

APHASIA; APHASY
A*pha"si*a, Aph"a*sy, n. Etym: [NL. aphasia, Gr. aphasie.] (Med.)

Defn: Loss of the power of speech, or of the appropriate use of
words, the vocal organs remaining intact, and the intelligence being
preserved. It is dependent on injury or disease of the brain.

APHASIC
A*pha"sic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or affected by, aphasia; speechless.

APHELION
A*phel"ion, n.; pl. Aphelia. Etym: [Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: That point of a planet's or comet's orbit which is most distant
from the sun, the opposite point being the perihelion.

APHELIOTROPIC
A*phe`li*o*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Turning away from the sun; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.

APHELIOTROPISM
A*phe`li*ot"ro*pism, n.

Defn: The habit of bending from the sunlight; -- said of certain
plants.

APHEMIA
A*phe"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Loss of the power of speaking, while retaining the power of
writing; -- a disorder of cerebral origin.

APHERESIS
A*pher"e*sis, n. Etym: [L. aphaeresis, Gr.

1. (Gram.)

Defn: The dropping of a letter or syllable from the beginning of a
word; e. g., cute for acute.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: An operation by which any part is separated from the rest.
[Obs.] Dunglison.

APHESIS
Aph"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The loss of a short unaccented vowel at the beginning of a
word; -- the result of a phonetic process; as, squire for esquire.
New Eng. Dict.

APHETIC
A*phet"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Shortened by dropping a letter or a syllable from the beginning
of a word; as, an aphetic word or form.
 -- A*phet"ic*al*ly, adv. New Eng. Dict.

APHETISM
Aph"e*tism, n.

Defn: An aphetized form of a word. New Eng. Dict.

APHETIZE
Aph"e*tize, v. t.

Defn: To shorten by aphesis.
These words . . . have been aphetized. New Eng. Dict.

APHID
A"phid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian.

APHIDES
Aph"i*des, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Aphis.

APHIDIAN
A*phid"i*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the family Aphidæ.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the aphides; an aphid.

APHIDIVOROUS
Aph`i*div"o*rous. Etym: [Aphis + L. vorare to devour.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Devouring aphides; aphidophagous.

APHIDOPHAGOUS
Aph`i*doph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Aphis + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feeding upon aphides, or plant lice, as do beetles of the
family Coccinellidæ.

APHILANTHROPY
Aph`i*lan"thro*py, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Want of love to mankind; -- the opposite of philanthropy. Coxe.

APHIS
A"phis, n.; pl. Aphides. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and family
Aphidæ, including numerous species known as plant lice and green
flies.

Note: Besides the true males and females, there is a race of wingless
asexual individuals which have the power of producing living young in
rapid succession, and these in turn may produce others of the same
kind for several generations, before sexual individuals appear. They
suck the sap of plants by means of a tubular proboscis, and owing to
the wonderful rapidity of their reproduction become very destructive
to vegetation. Many of the Aphidæ excrete honeydew from two tubes
near the end of the body.

APHIS LION
A"phis li"on. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of the lacewinged flies (Chrysopa), which feeds
voraciously upon aphids. The name is also applied to the larvæ of the
ladybugs (Coccinella).

APHLOGISTIC
Aph`lo*gis"*tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Flameless; as, an aphlogistic lamp, in which a coil of wire is
kept in a state of continued ignition by alcohol, without flame.

APHONIA; APHONY
A*pho"ni*a, Aph"o*ny, n. Etym: [NL. aphonia, Gr. aphonie.] (Med.)

Defn: Loss of voice or vocal utterance.

APHONIC; APHONOUS
A*phon"ic, Aph"o*nous, a.

Defn: Without voice; voiceless; nonvocal.

APHORISM
Aph"o*rism, n. Etym: [F. aphorisme, fr. Gr. Horizon.]

Defn: A comprehensive maxim or principle expressed in a few words; a
sharply defined sentence relating to abstract truth rather than to
practical matters.
The first aphorism of Hippocrates is, "Life is short, and the art is
long." Fleming.

Syn.
 -- Axiom; maxim; adage; proverb; apothegm; saying; saw; truism;
dictum. See Axiom.

APHORISMATIC; APHORISMIC
Aph`o*ris*mat"ic, Aph`o*ris"mic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to aphorisms, or having the form of an aphorism.

APHORISMER
Aph`o*ris"mer n.

Defn: A dealer in aphorisms. [Used in derogation or contempt.]
Milton.

APHORIST
Aph"o*rist, n.

Defn: A writer or utterer of aphorisms.

APHORISTIC; APHORISTICAL
Aph`o*ris"tic, Aph`o*ris"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: In the form of, or of the nature of, an aphorism; in the form
of short, unconnected sentences; as, an aphoristic style.
The method of the book is aphoristic. De Quincey.

APHORISTICALLY
Aph`o*ris"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form or manner of aphorisms; pithily.

APHORIZE
Aph"o*rize, v. i.

Defn: To make aphorisms.

APHOTIC
A*pho"tic (a*fo"tik), a. [Gr. 'a`fws, 'a`fwtos.]

Defn: Without light.

APHOTIC REGION
Aphotic region. (Phytogeog.)

Defn: A depth of water so great that only those organisms can exist
that do not assimilate.

APHRASIA
A*phra"si*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr. 'a priv. + fra`sis speech.] (Med.)
 (a) = Dumbness.
 (b) A disorder of speech in which words can be uttered but not
intelligibly joined together.

APHRITE
Aph"rite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See under Calcite.

APHRODISIAC; APHRODISIACAL
Aph`ro*dis"i*ac, Aph`ro*di*si"a*cal, a. Etym: [Gr. Aphrodite.]

Defn: Exciting venereal desire; provocative to venery.

APHRODISIAC
Aph`ro*dis"i*ac, n.

Defn: That which (as a drug, or some kinds of food) excites to
venery.

APHRODISIAN
Aph`ro*dis"i*an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Aphrodite or Venus. "Aphrodisian dames" [that is,
courtesans]. C. Reade.

APHRODITE
Aph`ro*di"te, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Classic Myth.)

Defn: The Greek goddess of love, corresponding to the Venus of the
Romans.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large marine annelid, covered with long, lustrous, golden,
hairlike setæ; the sea mouse.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beautiful butterfly (Argunnis Aphrodite) of the United
States.

APHRODITIC
Aph`ro*dit"ic, a.

Defn: Venereal. [R.] Dunglison.

APHTHA
Aph"tha, n. Etym: [Sing. of Aphthæ.] (Med.)
(a) One of the whitish specks called aphthæ.
(b) The disease, also called thrush.

APHTHAE
Aph"thæ, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Roundish pearl-colored specks or flakes in the mouth, on the
lips, etc., terminating in white sloughs. They are commonly
characteristic of thrush.

APHTHOID
Aph"thoid, a. Etym: [Aphtha + -oid.]

Defn: Of the nature of aphthæ; resembling thrush.

APHTHONG
Aph"thong, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A letter, or a combination of letters, employed in spelling a
word, but in the pronunciation having no sound.
 -- Aph*thon"gal, a.

APHTHOUS
Aph"thous a. Etym: [Cf. F. aphtheux.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or caused by, aphthæ; characterized by aphtæ;
as, aphthous ulcers; aphthous fever.

APHYLLOUS
Aph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of leaves, as the broom rape, certain euphorbiaceous
plants, etc.

APIACEOUS
A`pi*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Umbelliferous.

APIAN
A"pi*an, a.

Defn: Belonging to bees.

APIARIAN
A`pi*a"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or relating to bees.

APIARIST
A"pi*a*rist, n.

Defn: One who keeps an apiary.

APIARY
A"pi*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. apiarium, fr. apis bee.]

Defn: A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; a
beehouse.

APICAL
Ap"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. apex, apicis, tip or summit.]

Defn: At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit. Gray.

APICES
Ap"i*ces, n. pl.

Defn: See Apex.

APICIAN
A*pi"cian, a. Etym: [L. Apicianus.]

Defn: Belonging to Apicius, a notorious Roman epicure; hence applied
to whatever is peculiarly refined or dainty and expensive in cookery.
H. Rogers.

APICULAR
A*pic"u*lar, a. Etym: [NL. apiculus, dim. of L. apex, apicis.]

Defn: Situated at, or near, the apex; apical.

APICULATE; APICULATED
A*pic"u*late, A*pic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Apicular.] (Bot.)

Defn: Terminated abruptly by a small, distinct point, as a leaf.

APICULTURE
Ap"i*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. apis bee + E. culture.]

Defn: Rearing of bees for their honey and wax.

APIECE
A*piece", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + piece.]

Defn: Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share of
each; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece. "Fined . . . a
thousand pounds apiece." Hume.

APIECES
A*pie"ces, adv.

Defn: In pieces or to pieces. [Obs.] "Being torn apieces." Shak.

APIKED
A*pik"ed, a.

Defn: Trimmed. [Obs.]
Full fresh and new here gear apiked was. Chaucer.

APIOL
A"pi*ol, n. Etym: [L. apium parsley + -ol.] (Med.)

Defn: An oily liquid derived from parsley.

APIOLOGIST
A`pi*ol"o*gist, n. Etym: [L. apis bee + -logist (see -logy).]

Defn: A student of bees. [R.] Emerson.

APIOLOGY
A`pi*ol"o*gy, n. [L. apis bee + -logy.]

Defn: The scientific or systematic study of honey bees.

APIS
A"pis, n. Etym: [L., bee.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including the
common honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species. See
Honeybee.

APISH
Ap"ish, a.

Defn: Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servile
manner. Hence: Apelike; fantastically silly; foppish; affected;
trifling.
The apish gallantry of a fantastic boy. Sir W. Scott.

APISHLY
Ap"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apish manner; with servile imitation; foppishly.

APISHNESS
Ap"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being apish; mimicry; foppery.

APITPAT
A*pit"pat, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + pitpat.]

Defn: With quick beating or palpitation; pitapat. Congreve.

APLACENTAL
Ap`la*cen"tal, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + placental.]

Defn: Belonging to the Aplacentata; without placenta.

APLACENTATA
Ap`la*cen*ta"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Pref. a- not + placenta.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Mammals which have no placenta.

APLACOPHORA
Ap`la*coph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Amphineura in which the body is naked or covered
with slender spines or setæ, but is without shelly plates.

APLANATIC
Ap`la*nat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Opt.)

Defn: Having two or more parts of different curvatures, so combined
as to remove spherical aberration; -- said of a lens. Aplanatic focus
of a lens (Opt.), the point or focus from which rays diverging pass
the lens without spherical aberration. In certain forms of lenses
there are two such foci; and it is by taking advantage of this fact
that the best aplanatic object glasses of microscopes are
constructed.

APLANATISM
A*plan"a*tism, n.

Defn: Freedom from spherical aberration.

APLANOGAMETE
A*plan`o*ga*mete", n. (Bot.)

Defn: A nonmotile gamete, found in certain lower algæ.

APLASIA
A*pla"si*a, n. [NL.; Gr.  priv. +  a molding.] (Med.)

Defn: Incomplete or faulty development.

APLASTIC
A*plas"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + plastic.]

Defn: Not plastic or easily molded.

APLOMB
A`plomb", n. Etym: [F., lit. perpendicularity; plomb lead. See
Plumb.]

Defn: Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession.

APLOTOMY
A*plot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: Simple incision. Dunglison.

APLUSTRE
A*plus"tre, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An ornamental appendage of wood at the ship's stern, usually
spreading like a fan and curved like a bird's feather. Audsley.

APLYSIA
A*plys"i*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine mollusks of the order Tectibranchiata; the
sea hare. Some of the species when disturbed throw out a deep purple
liquor, which colors the water to some distance. See Illust. in
Appendix.

APNEUMATIC
Ap`neu*mat"ic, a. [Gr.  not blown through.] (Med.)

Defn: Devoid of air; free from air; as, an apneumatic lung; also,
effected by or with exclusion of air; as, an apneumatic operation.

APNEUMONA
Ap*neu"mo*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of holothurians in which the internal respiratory
organs are wanting; -- called also Apoda or Apodes.

APNOEA; APNEA
Ap*nae"a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Partial privation or suspension of breath; suffocation.

APO
Ap"o. Etym: [Gr. Ab-.]

Defn: A prefix from a Greek preposition. It usually signifies from,
away from, off, or asunder, separate; as, in apocope (a cutting off),
apostate, apostle (one sent away), apocarpous.

APOCALYPSE
A*poc"a*lypse, n. Etym: [L. apocalypsis, Gr. apocalypse.]

1. The revelation delivered to St. John, in the isle of Patmos, near
the close of the first century, forming the last book of the New
Testament.

2. Anything viewed as a revelation; as disclosure.
The new apocalypse of Nature. Carlyle.

APOCALYPTIC; APOCALYPTICAL
A*poc`a*lyp"tic, A*poc`a*lyp"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to the
Revelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a prophetic
revelation. Apocolyptic number, the number 666, mentioned in Rev.
xiii. 18. It has been variously interpreted.

APOCALYPTIC; APOCALYPTIST
A*poc`a*lyp"tic, A*poc`a*lyp"tist, n.

Defn: The writer of the Apocalypse.

APOCALYPTICALLY
A*poc`a*lyp"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By revelation; in an apocalyptic manner.

APOCARPOUS
Ap`o*car"pous, a. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Either entirely of partially separate, as the carpels of a
compound pistil; -- opposed to syncarpous. Lindley.

APOCHROMATIC
Ap`o*chro*mat"ic, a. [Pref. apo-+ chromatic.] (Optics)

Defn: Free from chromatic and spherical aberration; -- said esp. of a
lens in which rays of three or more colors are brought to the same
focus, the degree of achromatism thus obtained being more complete
than where two rays only are thus focused, as in the ordinary
achromatic objective. --Ap`o*chro"ma*tism (#), n.

APOCODEINE
Ap`o*co*de"ine, n. [Pref. apo-+ codeine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid, , prepared from codeine. In its effects it
resembles apomorphine.

APOCOPATE
A*poc"o*pate, v. t. Etym: [LL. apocopatus, p. p. of apocopare to cut
off, fr. L. apocore. See Apocope.] (Gram.)

Defn: To cut off or drop; as, to apocopate a word, or the last
letter, syllable, or part of a word.

APOCOPATE; APOCOPATED
A*poc"o*pate, A*poc"o*pa`ted, a.

Defn: Shortened by apocope; as, an apocopate form.

APOCOPATION
A*poc`o*pa"tion, n.

Defn: Shortening by apocope; the state of being apocopated.

APOCOPE
A*poc"o*pe, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. The cutting off, or omission, of the last letter, syllable, or
part of a word.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A cutting off; abscission.

APOCRISIARY; APOCRISIARIUS
Ap`o*cris"i*a*ry, Ap`o*cris`i*a"ri*us, n. Etym: [L. apocrisiarius,
apocrisarius, fr. Gr. (Eccl.)

Defn: A delegate or deputy; especially, the pope's nuncio or legate
at Constantinople.

APOCRUSTIC
Ap`o*crus"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Astringent and repellent.
 -- n.

Defn: An apocrustic medicine.

APOCRYPHA
A*poc"ry*pha, n. pl., but often used as sing. with pl. Apocryphas.
Etym: [L. apocryphus apocryphal, Gr.

1. Something, as a writing, that is of doubtful authorship or
authority; -- formerly used also adjectively. [Obs.] Locke.

2. Specif.: Certain writings which are received by some Christians as
an authentic part of the Holy Scriptures, but are rejected by others.

Note: Fourteen such writings, or books, formed part of the
Septuagint, but not of the Hebrew canon recognized by the Jews of
Palestine. The Council of Trent included all but three of these in
the canon of inspired books having equal authority. The German and
English Reformers grouped them in their Bibles under the title
Apocrypha, as not having dogmatic authority, but being profitable for
instruction. The Apocrypha is now commonly

APOCRYPHAL
A*poc"ry*phal, a.

1. Pertaining to the Apocrypha.

2. Not canonical. Hence: Of doubtful authority; equivocal; mythic;
fictitious; spurious; false.
The passages . . . are, however, in part from apocryphal or
fictitious works. Sir G. C. Lewis.

APOCRYPHALIST
A*poc"ry*phal*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in, or defends, the Apocrypha. [R.]

APOCRYPHALLY
A*poc"ry*phal*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apocryphal manner; mythically; not indisputably.

APOCRYPHALNESS
A*poc"ry*phal*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being apocryphal; doubtfulness of
credit or genuineness.

APOCYNACEOUS; APOCYNEOUS
A*poc`y*na"ceous, Ap`o*cyn"e*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a family of plants, of which the
dogbane (Apocynum) is the type.

APOCYNIN
A*poc"y*nin, n. Etym: [From Apocynum, the generic name of dogbane.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A bitter principle obtained from the dogbane (Apocynum
cannabinum).

APOD; APODAL
Ap"od, Ap"o*dal, a. Etym: [See Apod, n.]

1. Without feet; footless.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of the ventral fin, as the eels.

APOD; APODE
Ap"od, Ap"ode, n.; pl. Apods or Apodes. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of certain animals that have no feet or footlike organs;
esp. one of certain fabulous birds which were said to have no feet.

Note: The bird of paradise formerly had the name Paradisea apoda,
being supposed to have no feet, as these were wanting in the
specimens first obtained from the East Indies.

APODA
Ap"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Apod, n.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A group of cirripeds, destitute of footlike organs.
(b) An order of Amphibia without feet. See Ophiomorpha.
(c) A group of worms without appendages, as the leech.

APODAN
Ap"o*dan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Apodal.

APODEICTIC; APODICTIC; APODEICTICAL; APODICTICAL
Ap"o*deic"tic, Ap`o*dic"tic, Ap`o*deic"tic*al, Ap`o*dic"tic*al, a.
Etym: [L. apodicticus, Gr.

Defn: Self-evident; intuitively true; evident beyond contradiction.
Brougham. Sir Wm. Hamilton.

APODEICTICALLY; APODICTICALLY
Ap`o*deic"tic*al*ly, Ap`o*dic"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to be evident beyond contradiction.

APODEME
Ap"o*deme, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the processes of the shell which project inwards and
unite with one another, in the thorax of many Crustacea.

APODES
Ap"o*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL., masc. pl. See Apoda.] (Zoöl.)
(a) An order of fishes without ventral fins, including the eels.
(b) A group of holothurians destitute of suckers. See Apneumona.

APODICTIC
Ap`o*dic"tic, a.

Defn: Same as Apodeictic.

APODIXIS
Ap`o*dix"is, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: Full demonstration.

APODOSIS
A*pod"o*sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: The consequent clause or conclusion in a conditional sentence,
expressing the result, and thus distinguished from the protasis or
clause which expresses a condition. Thus, in the sentence, "Though he
slay me, yet will I trust in him," the former clause is the protasis,
and the latter the apodosis.

Note: Some grammarians extend the terms protasis and apodosis to the
introductory clause and the concluding clause, even when the sentence
is not conditional.

APODOUS
Ap"o*dous(#), a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Apodal; apod.

APODYTERIUM
A*pod`y*te"ri*um, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Anc. Arch.)

Defn: The apartment at the entrance of the baths, or in the palestra,
where one stripped; a dressing room.

APOGAIC
Ap`o*ga"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Apogean.

APOGAMIC
Ap`o*gam"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to apogamy.

APOGAMY
A*pog"a*my, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The formation of a bud in place of a fertilized ovule or
oöspore. De Bary.

APOGEAL
Ap`o*ge"al, a. (Astron.)

Defn: Apogean.

APOGEAN
Ap`o*ge"an, a.

Defn: Connected with the apogee; as, apogean (neap) tides, which
occur when the moon has passed her apogee.

APOGEE
Ap"o*gee, n. Etym: [Gr. apogée.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatest
distance from the earth.

Note: Formerly, on the hypothesis that the earth is in the center of
the system, this name was given to that point in the orbit of the
sun, or of a planet, which was supposed to be at the greatest
distance from the earth.

2. Fig.: The farthest or highest point; culmination.

APOGEOTROPIC
Ap`o*ge`o*trop"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Bending away from the ground; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.

APOGEOTROPISM
Ap"o*ge*ot"ro*pism, n.

Defn: The apogeotropic tendency of some leaves, and other parts.

APOGRAPH
Ap"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. apographe.]

Defn: A copy or transcript. Blount.

APOHYAL
Ap`o*hy"al, a. Etym: [Pref. apo- + the Gr. letter Y.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a portion of the horn of the hyoid bone.

APOISE
A*poise", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + poise.]

Defn: Balanced.

APOLAR
A*po"lar, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + polar.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly to
certain nerve cells.

APOLAUSTIC
Ap`o*laus"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Devoted to enjoyment.

APOLLINARIAN
A*pol`li*na"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Apollinaris, fr. Apollo.] (Rom.
Antiq.)

Defn: In honor of Apollo; as, the Apollinarian games.

APOLLINARIAN
A*pol`li*na"ri*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Apollinaris, Bishop of Laodicea in the fourth
century, who denied the proper humanity of Christ.

APOLLINARIS WATER
A*pol`li*na"ris wa"ter.

Defn: An effervescing alkaline mineral water used as a table
beverage. It is obtained from a spring in Apollinarisburg, near Bonn.

APOLLO
A*pol"lo, n. Etym: [L. Apollo, -linis, Gr. (Classic Myth.)

Defn: A deity among the Greeks and Romans. He was the god of light
and day (the "sun god"), of archery, prophecy, medicine, poetry, and
music, etc., and was represented as the model of manly grace and
beauty; -- called also Phébus. The Apollo Belvedere, a celebrated
statue of Apollo in the Belvedere gallery of the Vatican palace at
Rome, esteemed of the noblest representations of the human frame.

APOLLONIAN; APOLLONIC
Ap`ol*lo"ni*an, Ap`ol*lon"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Apollo.

APOLLYON
A*pol"ly*on, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The Destroyer; -- a name used (Rev. ix. 11) for the angel of
the bottomless pit, answering to the Hebrew Abaddon.

APOLOGER
A*pol"o*ger, n.

Defn: A teller of apologues. [Obs.]

APOLOGETIC; APOLOGETICAL
A*pol`o*get"ic, A*pol`o*get"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Logic.]

Defn: Defending by words or arguments; said or written in defense, or
by way of apology; regretfully excusing; as, an apologetic essay. "To
speak in a subdued and apologetic tone." Macaulay.

APOLOGETICALLY
A*pol`o*get"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of apology.

APOLOGETICS
A*pol`o*get"ics, n.

Defn: That branch of theology which defends the Holy Scriptures, and
sets forth the evidence of their divine authority.

APOLOGIST
A*pol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apologiste.]

Defn: One who makes an apology; one who speaks or writes in defense
of a faith, a cause, or an institution; especially, one who argues in
defense of Christianity.

APOLOGIZE
A*pol"o*gize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Apologized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apologizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. apologiser.]

1. To make an apology or defense. Dr. H. More.

2. To make an apology or excuse; to make acknowledgment of some fault
or offense, with expression of regret for it, by way of amends; --
with for; as, my correspondent apologized for not answering my
letter.
To apologize for his insolent language. Froude.

APOLOGIZE
A*pol"o*gize, v. t.

Defn: To defend. [Obs.]
The Christians . . . were apologized by Plinie. Dr. G. Benson.

APOLOGIZER
A*pol"o*gi`zer, n.

Defn: One who makes an apology; an apologist.

APOLOGUE
Ap"o*logue, n. Etym: [L. apologous, Gr. apologue.]

Defn: A story or relation of fictitious events, intended to convey
some moral truth; a moral fable.

Note: An apologue differs from a parable in this;: the parable is
drawn from events which take place among mankind, and therefore
requires probability in the narrative; the apologue is founded on
supposed actions of brutes or inanimate things, and therefore is not
limited by strict rules of probability. Æsop's fables are good
examples of apologues.

APOLOGY
A*pol"o*gy, n.; pl. Apologies . Etym: [L. apologia, Gr. apologie. See
Apologetic.]

1. Something said or written in defense or justification of what
appears to others wrong, or of what may be liable to disapprobation;
justification; as, Tertullian's Apology for Christianity.
It is not my intention to make an apology for my poem; some will
think it needs no excuse, and others will receive none. Dryden.

2. An acknowledgment intended as an atonement for some improper or
injurious remark or act; an admission to another of a wrong or
discourtesy done him, accompanied by an expression of regret.

3. Anything provided as a substitute; a makeshift.
He goes to work devising apologies for window curtains. Dickens.

Syn.
 -- Excuse. An apology, in the original sense of the word, was a
pleading off from some charge or imputation, by explaining and
defending one's principles or conduct. It therefore amounted to a
vindication. One who offers an apology, admits himself to have been,
at least apparently, in the wrong, but brings forward some palliating
circumstance, or tenders a frank acknowledgment, by way of
reparation. We make an apology for some breach of propriety or
decorum (like rude expressions, unbecoming conduct, etc.), or some
deficiency in what might be reasonably expected. We offer an excuse
when we have been guilty of some breach or neglect of duty; and we do
it by way of extenuating our fault, and with a view to be forgiven.
When an excuse has been accepted, an apology may still, in some
cases, be necessary or appropriate. "An excuse is not grounded on the
claim of innocence, but is rather an appeal for favor resting on some
collateral circumstance. An apology mostly respects the conduct of
individuals toward each other as equals; it is a voluntary act
produced by feelings of decorum, or a desire for the good opinion of
others." Crabb.

APOLOGY
A*pol"o*gy, v. i.

Defn: To offer an apology. [Obs.]
For which he can not well apology. J. Webster.

APOMECOMETER
Ap`o*me*com"e*ter, n.

Defn: An instrument for measuring the height of objects. Knight.

APOMECOMETRY
Ap`o*me*com"e*try, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. -metry.]

Defn: The art of measuring the distance of objects afar off. [Obs. or
R.]

APOMORPHIA; APOMORPHINE
Ap`o*mor"phi*a, Ap`o*mor"phine, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + morphia,
morphine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline alkaloid obtained from morphia. It is a powerful
emetic.

APONEUROSIS
Ap`o*neu*ro"sis, n.; pl. Aponeuroses. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Any one of the thicker and denser of the deep fasciæ which
cover, invest, and the terminations and attachments of, many muscles.
They often differ from tendons only in being flat and thin. See
Fascia.

APONEUROTIC
Ap`o*neu*rot"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an aponeurosis.

APONEUROTOMY
Ap`o*neu*rot"o*my, n. Etym: [Aponeurosis + Gr.

Defn: Dissection of aponeuroses.

APOPEMPTIC
Ap`o*pemp"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Sung or addressed to one departing; valedictory; as, apoplectic
songs or hymns.

APOPHASIS
A*poph"a*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which a speaker formally declines to take notice of
a favorable point, but in such a manner as to produce the effect
desired. [For example, see Mark Antony's oration. Shak., Julius
Cæsar, iii. 2.]

APOPHLEGMATIC
Ap`o*phleg*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Phlegmatic.] (Med.)

Defn: Designed to facilitate discharges of phlegm or mucus from mouth
or nostrils.
 -- n.

Defn: An apohlegmatic medicine.

APOPHLEGMATISM
Ap`o*phleg"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: The action of apophlegmatics.

2. An apophlegmatic. [Obs.] Bacon.

APOPHLEGMATIZANT
Ap`o*phleg*mat"i*zant, n. (Med.)

Defn: An apophlegmatic. [Obs.]

APOPHTHEGM
Ap`oph*thegm, n.

Defn: See Apothegm.

APOPHTHEGMATIC; APOPHTHEGMATICAL
Ap`oph*theg*mat"ic, Ap`oph*theg*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Same as Apothegmatic.

APOPHYGE
A*poph"y*ge, n. Etym: [Gr. apophyge.] (Arch.)

Defn: The small hollow curvature given to the top or bottom of the
shaft of a column where it expands to meet the edge of the fillet; --
called also the scape. Parker.

APOPHYLLITE
A*poph"yl*lite, n. Etym: [Pref. apo- + Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral relating to the zeolites, usually occurring in square
prisms or octahedrons with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. It
is a hydrous silicate of calcium and potassium.

APOPHYSIS
A*poph"y*sis, n.; pl. -ses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A marked prominence or process on any part of a bone.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An enlargement at the top of a pedicel or stem, as seen in
certain mosses. Gray.

APOPLECTIC; APOPLECTICAL
Ap`o*plec"tic(#) Ap`o*plec"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. apoplecticus, Gr.
apoplectique. See Apoplexy.]

Defn: Relating to apoplexy; affected with, inclined to, or
symptomatic of, apoplexy; as, an apoplectic person, medicine, habit
or temperament, symptom, fit, or stroke.

APOPLECTIC
Ap`o*plec"tic, n.

Defn: One liable to, or affected with, apoplexy.

APOPLECTIFORM; APOPLECTOID
Ap`o*plec"ti*form, Ap`o*plec"toid, a. Etym: [Apoplectic + -form, -
oid.]

Defn: Resembling apoplexy.

APOPLEX
Ap"o*plex, n.

Defn: Apoplexy. [Obs.] Dryden.

APOPLEXED
Ap`o*plexed, a.

Defn: Affected with apoplexy. [Obs.] Shak.

APOPLEXY
Ap"o*plex`y, n. Etym: [OE. poplexye, LL. poplexia, apoplexia, fr. Gr.
apoplexie. See Plague.] (Med.)

Defn: Sudden diminution or loss of consciousness, sensation, and
voluntary motion, usually caused by pressure on the brain.

Note: The term is now usually limited to cerebral apoplexy, or loss
of consciousness due to effusion of blood or other lesion within the
substance of the brain; but it is sometimes extended to denote an
effusion of blood into the substance of any organ; as, apoplexy of
the lung.

APORETICAL
Ap`o*ret"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Aporia.]

Defn: Doubting; skeptical. [Obs.] Cudworth.

APORIA
A*po"ri*a, n.; pl. Aporias. Etym: [L., doubt, Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss what
course to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc.

APOROSA
Ap`o*ro"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Aporia.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of corals in which the coral is not porous; -- opposed
to Perforata.

APOROSE
Ap`o*rose", a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without pores.

APORT
A*port", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + port.] (Naut.)

Defn: On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm.

APOSEMATIC
Ap`o*se*mat"ic, a. [Pref. apo-+ sematic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having or designating conspicuous or warning colors or
structures indicative of special means of defense against enemies, as
in the skunk.

APOSIOPESIS
Ap`o*si`o*pe"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech in which the speaker breaks off suddenly, as
if unwilling or unable to state what was in his mind; as, "I declare
to you that his conduct -- but I can not speak of that, here."

APOSITIC
Ap`o*sit"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Destroying the appetite, or suspending hunger.

APOSTASY
A*pos"ta*sy, n.; pl. Apostasies. Etym: [OE. apostasie, F. apostasie,
L. apostasia, fr. Gr. Off and Stand.]

Defn: An abandonment of what one has voluntarily professed; a total
desertion of departure from one's faith, principles, or party; esp.,
the renunciation of a religious faith; as, Julian's apostasy from
Christianity.

APOSTATE
A*pos"tate, n. Etym: [L. apostata, Gr. Apostasy.]

1. One who has forsaken the faith, principles, or party, to which he
before adhered; esp., one who has forsaken his religion for another;
a pervert; a renegade.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One who, after having received sacred orders, renounces his
clerical profession.

APOSTATE
A*pos"tate, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, apostasy; faithless to
moral allegiance; renegade.
So spake the apostate angel. Milton.
A wretched and apostate state. Steele.

APOSTATE
A*pos"tate, v. i. Etym: [L. apostatare.]

Defn: To apostatize. [Obs.]
We are not of them which apostate from Christ. Bp. Hall.

APOSTATIC
Ap`o*stat"ic, a. Etym: [L. apostaticus, Gr.

Defn: Apostatical. [R.]

APOSTATICAL
Ap`o*stat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Apostate.
An heretical and apostatical church. Bp. Hall.

APOSTATIZE
A*pos"ta*tize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Apostatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apostatizing.] Etym: [LL. apostatizare.]

Defn: To renounce totally a religious belief once professed; to
forsake one's church, the faith or principles once held, or the party
to which one has previously adhered.
He apostatized from his old faith in facts, took to believing in
Carlyle.

APOSTEMATE
A*pos"te*mate, v. i. Etym: [See Aposteme.]

Defn: To form an abscess; to swell and fill with pus. Wiseman.

APOSTEMATION
A*pos`te*ma"tion, n. Etym: [LL. apostematio: cf. F. apostémation.]
(Med.)

Defn: The formation of an aposteme; the process of suppuration.
[Written corruptly imposthumation.] Wiseman.

APOSTEMATOUS
Ap`os*tem"a*tous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or partaking of the nature of, an aposteme.

APOSTEME
Ap"os*teme, n. Etym: [L. apostema, Gr. apostème. See Apostasy.]
(Med.)

Defn: An abscess; a swelling filled with purulent matter. [Written
corruptly imposthume.]

A POSTERIORI
A` pos*te`ri*o"ri. Etym: [L. a (ab) + posterior latter.]

1. (Logic)

Defn: Characterizing that kind of reasoning which derives
propositions from the observation of facts, or by generalizations
from facts arrives at principles and definitions, or infers causes
from effects. This is the reverse of a priori reasoning.

2. (Philos.)

Defn: Applied to knowledge which is based upon or derived from facts
through induction or experiment; inductive or empirical.

APOSTIL; APOSTILLE
A*pos"til, A*pos"tille, n. Etym: [F. apostille. See Postil.]

Defn: A marginal note on a letter or other paper; an annotation.
Motley.

APOSTLE
A*pos"tle, n. Etym: [OE. apostle, apostel, postle, AS. apostol, L.
apostolus, fr. Gr. stellen to set, E. stall: cf. F. apôtre, Of.
apostre, apostle, apostele, apostole.]

1. Literally: One sent forth; a messenger. Specifically: One of the
twelve disciples of Christ, specially chosen as his companions and
witnesses, and sent forth to preach the gospel.
He called unto him his disciples, and of them he chose twelve, whom
also he named apostles. Luke vi. 13.

Note: The title of apostle is also applied to others, who, though not
of the number of the Twelve, yet were equal with them in office and
dignity; as, "Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ." 1 Cor.
i. 1. In Heb. iii. 1, the name is given to Christ himself, as having
been sent from heaven to publish the gospel. In the primitive church,
other ministers were called apostles (Rom. xvi. 7).

2. The missionary who first plants the Christian faith in any part of
the world; also, one who initiates any great moral reform, or first
advocates any important belief; one who has extraordinary success as
a missionary or reformer; as, Dionysius of Corinth is called the
apostle of France, John Eliot the apostle to the Indians, Theobald
Mathew the apostle of temperance.

3. (Civ. & Admiralty Law)

Defn: A brief letter dimissory sent by a court appealed from to the
superior court, stating the case, etc.; a paper sent up on appeals in
the admiralty courts. Wharton. Burrill. Apostles' creed, a creed of
unknown origin, which was formerly ascribed to the apostles. It
certainly dates back to the beginning of the sixth century, and some
assert that it can be found in the writings of Ambrose in the fourth
century.
 -- Apostle spoon (Antiq.), a spoon of silver, with the handle
terminating in the figure of an apostle. One or more were offered by
sponsors at baptism as a present to the godchild. B. Jonson.

APOSTLESHIP
A*pos"tle*ship, n.

Defn: The office or dignity of an apostle.

APOSTOLATE
A*pos"to*late, n. Etym: [L. apostolatus, fr. apostolus. See Apostle.]

1. The dignity, office, or mission, of an apostle; apostleship.
Judas had miscarried and lost his apostolate. Jer. Taylor.

2. The dignity or office of the pope, as the holder of the apostolic
see.

APOSTOLIC; APOSTOLICAL
Ap`os*tol"ic, Ap`os*tol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. apostolicus, Gr.
apostolique.]

1. Pertaining to an apostle, or to the apostles, their times, or
their peculiar spirit; as, an apostolical mission; the apostolic age.

2. According to the doctrines of the apostles; delivered or taught by
the apostles; as, apostolic faith or practice.

3. Of or pertaining to the pope or the papacy; papal. Apostolical
brief. See under Brief.
 -- Apostolic canons, a collection of rules and precepts relating to
the duty of Christians, and particularly to the ceremonies and
discipline of the church in the second and third centuries.
 -- Apostolic church, the Christian church; -- so called on account
of its apostolic foundation, doctrine, and order. The churches of
Rome, Alexandria, Antioch, and Jerusalem were called apostolic
churches.
 -- Apostolic constitutions, directions of a nature similar to the
apostolic canons, and perhaps compiled by the same authors or author.
 -- Apostolic fathers, early Christian writers, who were born in the
first century, and thus touched on the age of the apostles. They were
Polycarp, Clement, Ignatius, and Hermas; to these Barnabas has
sometimes been added.
 -- Apostolic king (or majesty), a title granted by the pope to the
kings of Hungary on account of the extensive propagation of
Christianity by St. Stephen, the founder of the royal line. It is now
a title of the emperor of Austria in right of the throne of Hungary.
 -- Apostolic see, a see founded and governed by an apostle;
specifically, the Church of Rome; -- so called because, in the Roman
Catholic belief, the pope is the successor of St. Peter, the prince
of the apostles, and the only apostle who has successors in the
apostolic office.
 -- Apostolical succession, the regular and uninterrupted
transmission of ministerial authority by a succession of bishops from
the apostles to any subsequent period. Hook.

APOSTOLIC
Ap`os*tol"ic, n. Etym: [L. apostolicus.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A member of one of certain ascetic sects which at various times
professed to imitate the practice of the apostles.

APOSTOLICALLY
Ap`os*tol"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apostolic manner.

APOSTOLICALNESS
Ap`os*tol"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: Apostolicity. Dr. H. More.

APOSTOLIC DELEGATE
Ap`os*tol"ic del"e*gate. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The diplomatic agent of the pope highest in grade, superior to
a nuncio.

APOSTOLICISM; APOSTOLICITY
Ap`os*tol"i*cism, A*pos`to*lic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being apostolical.

APOSTROPHE
A*pos"tro*phe, n. Etym: [(1) L., fr. Gr. apostrophus apostrophe, the
turning away or omitting of a letter, Gr.

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech by which the orator or writer suddenly
breaks off from the previous method of his discourse, and addresses,
in the second person, some person or thing, absent or present; as,
Milton's apostrophe to Light at the beginning of the third book of
"Paradise Lost."

2. (Gram.)

Defn: The contraction of a word by the omission of a letter or
letters, which omission is marked by the character ['] placed where
the letter or letters would have been; as, call'd for called.

3. The mark ['] used to denote that a word is contracted (as in ne'er
for never, can't for can not), and as sign of the possessive,
singular and plural; as, a boy's hat, boys' hats. In the latter use
it originally marked the omission of the letter e.

Note: The apostrophe is used to mark the plural of figures and
letters; as, two 10's and three a's. It is also employed to mark the
close of a quotation.

APOSTROPHIC
Ap`os*troph"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an apostrophe, grammatical or rhetorical.

APOSTROPHIZE
A*pos"tro*phize, v. t., Etym: [imp. & p. p. Apostrophized; p. pr. &
vb. n. Apostrophizing.]

1. To address by apostrophe.

2. To contract by omitting a letter or letters; also, to mark with an
apostrophe (') or apostrophes.

APOSTROPHIZE
A*pos"tro*phize, v. i.

Defn: To use the rhetorical figure called apostrophe.

APOSTUME
Ap"os*tume, n.

Defn: See Aposteme. [Obs.]

APOTACTITE
Ap`o*tac"tite, n. Etym: [LL. pl. apotactitae, Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of ancient Christians, who, in supposed imitation
of the first believers, renounced all their possessions.

APOTELESM
A*pot"e*lesm, n. Etym: [See Apotelesmatic.]

1. The result or issue. [Obs.]

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: The calculation and explanation of a nativity. [Obs.] Bailey.

APOTELESMATIC
Ap`o*tel`es*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Relating to the casting of horoscopes. [Archaic] Whewell.

2. Relating to an issue of fulfillment.
In this way a passage in the Old Testament may have, or rather
comprise, an apotelesmatic sense, i. e., one of after or final
accomplishment. M. Stuart.

APOTHECARY
A*poth"e*ca*ry, n.; pl. Apothecaries. Etym: [OE. apotecarie, fr. LL.
apothecarius, fr. L. apotheca storehouse, Gr. apo, fr. apothicaire,
OF. apotecaire. See Thesis.]

Defn: One who prepares and sells drugs or compounds for medicinal
purposes.

Note: In England an apothecary is one of a privileged class of
practitioners -- a kind of sub-physician. The surgeon apothecary is
the ordinary family medical attendant. One who sells drugs and makes
up prescriptions is now commonly called in England a druggist or a
pharmaceutical chemist. Apothecaries' weight, the system of weights
by which medical prescriptions were formerly compounded. The pound
and ounce are the same as in Troy weight; they differ only in the
manner of subdivision. The ounce is divided into 8 drams, 24
scruples, 480 grains. See Troy weight.

APOTHECIUM
Apo`*the"ci*um, n.; pl. Apothecia. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: The ascigerous fructification of lichens, forming masses of
various shapes.

APOTHEGM; APOPHTHEGM
Ap"o*thegm, Ap"oph*thegm, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A short, pithy, and instructive saying; a terse remark,
conveying some important truth; a sententious precept or maxim.

Note: [Apothegm is now the prevalent spelling in the United States.]

APOTHEGMATIC; APOTHEGMATICAL
Ap`o*theg*mat"ic, Ap`o*theg*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the manner of, an apotghem; sententious;
pithy.

APOTHEGMATIST
Ap`o*theg"ma*tist, n.

Defn: A collector or maker of apothegms. Pope.

APOTHEGMATIZE
Ap`o*theg"ma*tize, v. i.

Defn: To utter apothegms, or short and sententious sayings.

APOTHEM
Ap"o*them, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Math.)

Defn: The perpendicular from the center to one of the sides of a
regular polygon.

2. A deposit formed in a liquid extract of a vegetable substance by
exposure to the air.

APOTHEOSIS
Ap`o*the"o*sis, n. pl. Apotheoses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. The act of elevating a mortal to the rank of, and placing him
among, "the gods;" deification.

2. Glorification; exaltation. "The apotheosis of chivalry." Prescott.
"The noisy apotheosis of liberty and machinery." F. Harrison.

APOTHEOSIZE
Ap`o*the"o*size, v. t.

Defn: To exalt to the dignity of a deity; to declare to be a god; to
deify; to glorify.

APOTHESIS
A*poth"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. Apothecary.] (Arch.)
(a) A place on the south side of the chancel in the primitive
churches, furnished with shelves, for books, vestments, etc. Weale.
(b) A dressing room connected with a public bath.

APOTOME
A*pot"o*me, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Math.)

Defn: The difference between two quantities commensurable only in
power, as between sq. root2 and 1, or between the diagonal and side
of a square.

2. (Mus)

Defn: The remaining part of a whole tone after a smaller semitone has
been deducted from it; a major semitone. [Obs.]

APOZEM
Ap"o*zem, n. Etym: [L. apozema, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A decoction or infusion. [Obs.] Wiseman.

APOZEMICAL
Ap`o*zem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a decoction. [Obs.] J. Whitaker.

APPAIR
Ap*pair", v. t. & i. Etym: [OF. empeirier, F. empire. See Impair.]

Defn: To impair; to grow worse. [Obs.]

APPALACHIAN
Ap`pa*la"chi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chain of mountains in the United States,
commonly called the Allegheny mountains.

Note: The name Appalachian was given to the mountains by the
Spaniards under De Soto, who derived it from the heighboring Indians.
Am. Cyc.

APPALL
Ap*pall", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appalled; p. pr. & vb. n. Appalling.]
Etym: [OF. appalir to grow pale, make pale; a (L. ad) + pâlir to grow
pale, to make pale, pâle pale. See Pale, a., and cf. Pall.]

1. To make pale; to blanch. [Obs.]
The answer that ye made to me, my dear, . . . Hath so appalled my
countenance. Wyatt.

2. To weaken; to enfeeble; to reduce; as, an old appalled wight.
[Obs.] Chaucer.
Whine, of its own nature, will not congeal and freeze, only it will
lose the strength, and become appalled in extremity of cold. Holland.

3. To depress or discourage with fear; to impress with fear in such a
manner that the mind shrinks, or loses its firmness; to overcome with
sudden terror or horror; to dismay; as, the sight appalled the
stoutest heart.
The house of peers was somewhat appalled at this alarum. Clarendon.

Syn.
 -- To dismay; terrify; daunt; frighten; affright; scare; depress.
See Dismay.

APPALL
Ap*pall", v. i.

1. To grow faint; to become weak; to become dismayed or discouraged.
[Obs.] Gower.

2. To lose flavor or become stale. [Obs.]

APPALL
Ap*pall", n.

Defn: Terror; dismay. [Poet.] Cowper.

APPALLING
Ap*pall"ing, a.

Defn: Such as to appall; as, an appalling accident.
 -- Ap*pall"ing*ly, adv.

APPALLMENT
Ap*pall"ment, n.

Defn: Depression occasioned by terror; dismay. [Obs.] Bacon.

APPANAGE
Ap"pa*nage, n. Etym: [F. apanage, fr. OF. apaner to nourish, support,
fr. LL. apanare to furnish with bread, to provision; L. ad + pains
bread.]

1. The portion of land assigned by a sovereign prince for the
subsistence of his younger sons.

2. A dependency; a dependent territory.

3. That which belongs to one by custom or right; a natural adjunct or
accompaniment. "Wealth . . . the appanage of wit." Swift.

APPANAGIST
Ap*pan"a*gist, n. Etym: [F. apanagiste.]

Defn: A prince to whom an appanage has been granted.

APPARAILLYNG
Ap*par"ail*lyng, n. Etym: [See Apparel, n. & v.]

Defn: Preparation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APPARATUS
Ap"pa*ratus, n.; pl. Apparatus, also rarely Apparatuses. Etym: [L.,
from apparare, apparatum, to prepare; ad + prepare to make ready.]

1. Things provided as means to some end.

2. Hence: A full collection or set of implements, or utensils, for a
given duty, experimental or operative; any complex instrument or
appliance, mechanical or chemical, for a specific action or
operation; machinery; mechanism.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: A collection of organs all of which unite in a common function;
as, the respiratory apparatus.

APPAREL
Ap*par"el, n. Etym: [OE. apparel, apareil, OF. apareil, appareil,
preparation, provision, furniture, OF. apareiller to match, prepare,
F. appareiller; OF. a (L. ad) + pareil like, similar, fr. LL.
pariculus, dim. of L. par equal. See Pair.]

1. External clothing; vesture; garments; dress; garb; external
habiliments or array.
Fresh in his new apparel, proud and young. Denham.
At public devotion his resigned carriage made religion appear in the
natural apparel of simplicity. Tatler.

2. A small ornamental piece of embroidery worn on albs and some other
ecclesiastical vestments.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The furniture of a ship, as masts, sails, rigging, anchors,
guns, etc.

Syn.
 -- Dress; clothing; vesture; garments; raiment; garb; costume;
attire; habiliments.

APPAREL
Ap*par"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appareled, or Apparelled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Appareling, or Apparelling.] Etym: [OF. apareiller.]

1. To make or get (something) ready; to prepare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To furnish with apparatus; to equip; to fit out.
Ships . . . appareled to fight. Hayward.

3. To dress or clothe; to attire.
They which are gorgeously appareled, and live delicately, are in
kings' courts. Luke vii. 25.

4. To dress with external ornaments; to cover with something
ornamental; to deck; to embellish; as, trees appareled with flowers,
or a garden with verdure.
Appareled in celestial light. Wordsworth.

APPARENCE
Ap*par"ence, n. Etym: [OF. aparence.]

Defn: Appearance. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APPARENCY
Ap*par"en*cy, n.

1. Appearance. [Obs.]

2. Apparentness; state of being apparent. Coleridge.

3. The position of being heir apparent.

APPARENT
Ap*par"ent, a. Etym: [F. apparent, L. apparens, -entis, p. pr. of
apparere. See Appear.]

1. Capable of being seen, or easily seen; open to view; visible to
the eye; within sight or view.
The moon . . . apparent queen. Milton.

2. Clear or manifest to the understanding; plain; evident; obvious;
known; palpable; indubitable.
It is apparent foul play. Shak.

3. Appearing to the eye or mind (distinguished from, but not
necessarily opposed to, true or real); seeming; as the apparent
motion or diameter of the sun.
To live on terms of civility, and even of apparent friendship.
Macaulay.
What Berkeley calls visible magnitude was by astronomers called
apparent magnitude. Reid.
Apparent horizon, the circle which in a level plain bounds our view,
and is formed by the apparent meeting of the earth and heavens, as
distinguished from the rational horizon.
 -- Apparent time. See Time.
 -- Heir apparent (Law), one whose to an estate is indefeasible if he
survives the ancestor; -- in distinction from presumptive heir. See
Presumptive.

Syn.
 -- Visible; distinct; plain; obvious; clear; certain; evident;
manifest; indubitable; notorious.

APPARENT
Ap*par"ent, n.

Defn: An heir apparent. [Obs.]
I'll draw it [the sword] as apparent to the crown. Shak.

APPARENTLY
Ap*par"ent*ly, adv.

1. Visibly. [Obs.] Hobbes.

2. Plainly; clearly; manifestly; evidently.
If he should scorn me so apparently. Shak.

3. Seemingly; in appearance; as, a man may be apparently friendly,
yet malicious in heart.

APPARENTNESS
Ap*par"ent*ness, n.

Defn: Plainness to the eye or the mind; visibleness; obviousness.
[R.] Sherwood.

APPARITION
Ap`pa*ri"tion, n. Etym: [F. apparition, L. apparitio, fr. apparere.
See Appear.]

1. The act of becoming visible; appearance; visibility. Milton.
The sudden apparition of the Spaniards. Prescott.
The apparition of Lawyer Clippurse occasioned much speculation in
that portion of the world. Sir W. Scott.

2. The thing appearing; a visible object; a form.
Which apparition, it seems, was you. Tatler.

3. An unexpected, wonderful, or preternatural appearance; a ghost; a
specter; a phantom. "The heavenly bands . . . a glorious apparition."
Milton.
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes
That shapes this monstrous apparition. Shak.

4. (Astron.)

Defn: The first appearance of a star or other luminary after having
been invisible or obscured; -- opposed to occultation. Circle of
perpetual apparition. See under Circle.

APPARITIONAL
Ap`pa*ri"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an apparition or to apparitions; spectral. "An
apparitional soul." Tylor.

APPARITOR
Ap*par"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. apparere. See Appear.]

1. Formerly, an officer who attended magistrates and judges to
execute their orders.
Before any of his apparitors could execute the sentence, he was
himself summoned away by a sterner apparitor to the other world. De
Quincey.

2. (Law)

Defn: A messenger or officer who serves the process of an
ecclesiastical court. Bouvier.

APPAUME
Ap`pau`mé", n. Etym: [F. appaumé; (l. ad) + paume the palm, fr. L.
palma.] (Her.)

Defn: A hand open and extended so as to show the palm.

APPAY
Ap*pay", v. t. Etym: [OF. appayer, apaier, LL. appacare, appagare,
fr. L. ad + pacare to pacify, pax, pacis, peace. See Pay, Appease.]

Defn: To pay; to satisfy or appease. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

APPEACH
Ap*peach", v. t. Etym: [OE. apechen, for empechen, OF. empeechier, F.
empêcher, to hinder. See Impeach.]

Defn: To impeach; to accuse; to asperse; to inform against; to
reproach. [Obs.]
And oft of error did himself appeach. Spenser.

APPEACHER
Ap*peach"er, n.

Defn: An accuser. [Obs.] Raleigh.

APPEACHMENT
Ap*peach"ment, n.

Defn: Accusation. [Obs.]

APPEAL
Ap*peal", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Appealing.]
Etym: [OE. appelen, apelen, to appeal, accuse, OF. appeler, fr. L.
appellare to approach, address, invoke, summon, call, name; akin to
appellere to drive to; ad + pellere to drive. See Pulse, and cf.
Peal.]

1. (Law)
(a) To make application for the removal of (a cause) from an inferior
to a superior judge or court for a rehearing or review on account of
alleged injustice or illegality in the trial below. We say, the cause
was appealed from an inferior court.
(b) To charge with a crime; to accuse; to institute a private
criminal prosecution against for some heinous crime; as, to appeal a
person of felony.

2. To summon; to challenge. [Archaic]
Man to man will I appeal the Norman to the lists. Sir W. Scott.

3. To invoke. [Obs.] Milton.

APPEAL
Ap*peal", v. t.

1. (Law)

Defn: To apply for the removal of a cause from an inferior to a
superior judge or court for the purpose of reëxamination of for
decision. Tomlins.
I appeal unto Cæsar. Acts xxv. 11.

2. To call upon another to decide a question controverted, to
corroborate a statement, to vindicate one's rights, etc.; as, I
appeal to all mankind for the truth of what is alleged. Hence: To
call on one for aid; to make earnest request.
I appeal to the Scriptures in the original. Horsley.
They appealed to the sword. Macaulay.

APPEAL
Ap*peal", n. Etym: [OE. appel, apel, OF. apel, F. appel, fr. appeler.
See Appeal, v. t.]

1. (Law)
(a) An application for the removal of a cause or suit from an
inferior to a superior judge or court for reëxamination or review.
(b) The mode of proceeding by which such removal is effected.
(c) The right of appeal.
(d) An accusation; a process which formerly might be instituted by
one private person against another for some heinous crime demanding
punishment for the particular injury suffered, rather than for the
offense against the public.
(e) An accusation of a felon at common law by one of his accomplices,
which accomplice was then called an approver. See Approvement.
Tomlins. Bouvier.

2. A summons to answer to a charge. Dryden.

3. A call upon a person or an authority for proof or decision, in
one's favor; reference to another as witness; a call for help or a
favor; entreaty.
A kind of appeal to the Deity, the author of wonders. Bacon.

4. Resort to physical means; recourse.
Every milder method is to be tried, before a nation makes an appeal
to arms. Kent.

APPEALABLE
Ap*peal"a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being appealed against; that may be removed to a higher
tribunal for decision; as, the cause is appealable.

2. That may be accused or called to answer by appeal; as, a criminal
is appealable for manslaughter. [Obs.]

APPEALANT
Ap*peal"ant, n.

Defn: An appellant. [Obs.] Shak.

APPEALER
Ap*peal"er, n.

Defn: One who makes an appeal.

APPEALING
Ap*peal"ing, a.

Defn: That appeals; imploring.
 -- Ap*peal"*ing*ly, adv.
 -- Ap*peal"ing*ness, n.

APPEAR
Ap*pear", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Appeared; p. pr. & vb. n. Appearing.]
Etym: [OE. apperen, aperen, OF. aparoir, F. apparoir, fr. L. appar to
appear + parto come forth, to be visible; prob. from the same root as
par to produce. Cf. Apparent, Parent, Peer, v. i.]

1. To come or be in sight; to be in view; to become visible.
And God . . . said, Let . . . the dry land appear. Gen. i. 9.

2. To come before the public; as, a great writer appeared at that
time.

3. To stand in presence of some authority, tribunal, or superior
person, to answer a charge, plead a cause, or the like; to present
one's self as a party or advocate before a court, or as a person to
be tried.
We must all appear before the judgment seat. * Cor. v. 10.
One ruffian escaped because no prosecutor dared to appear. Macaulay.

4. To become visible to the apprehension of the mind; to be known as
a subject of observation or comprehension, or as a thing proved; to
be obvious or manifest.
It doth not yet appear what we shall be. 1 John iii. 2.
Of their vain contest appeared no end. Milton.

5. To seem; to have a certain semblance; to look.
They disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast.
Matt. vi. 16.

Syn.
 -- To seem; look. See Seem.

APPEAR
Ap*pear", n.

Defn: Appearance. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.

APPEARANCE
Ap*pear"ance, n. Etym: [F. apparence, L. apparentia, fr. apparere.
See Appear.]

1. The act of appearing or coming into sight; the act of becoming
visible to the eye; as, his sudden appearance surprised me.

2. A thing seed; a phenomenon; a phase; an apparition; as, an
appearance in the sky.

3. Personal presence; exhibition of the person; look; aspect; mien.
And now am come to see . . . It thy appearance answer loud report.
Milton.

4. Semblance, or apparent likeness; external show. pl. Outward signs,
or circumstances, fitted to make a particular impression or to
determine the judgment as to the character of a person or a thing, an
act or a state; as, appearances are against him.
There was upon the tabernacle, as it were, the appearance of fire.
Num. ix. 15.
For man looketh on the outward appearance. 1 Sam. xvi. 7.
Judge not according to the appearance. John. vii. 24.

5. The act of appearing in a particular place, or in society, a
company, or any proceedings; a coming before the public in a
particular character; as, a person makes his appearance as an
historian, an artist, or an orator.
Will he now retire, After appearance, and again prolong Our
expectation Milton.

6. Probability; likelihood. [Obs.]
There is that which hath no appearance. Bacon.

7. (Law)

Defn: The coming into court of either of the parties; the being
present in court; the coming into court of a party summoned in an
action, either by himself or by his attorney, expressed by a formal
entry by the proper officer to that effect; the act or proceeding by
which a party proceeded against places himself before the court, and
submits to its jurisdiction. Burrill. Bouvier. Daniell. To put in an
appearance, to be present; to appear in person.
 -- To save appearances, to preserve a fair outward show.

Syn.
 -- Coming; arrival; presence; semblance; pretense; air; look;
manner; mien; figure; aspect.

APPEARER
Ap*pear"er, n.

Defn: One who appears. Sir T. Browne.

APPEARINGLY
Ap*pear"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: Apparently. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

APPEASABLE
Ap*peas"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being appeased or pacified; placable.
 -- Ap*peas"a*ble*ness, n.

APPEASE
Ap*pease", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Appeasing.]
Etym: [OE. apesen, apaisen, OF. apaisier, apaissier, F. apaiser, fr.
a (L. ad) + OF. pais peace, F. paix, fr. L. pax, pacis. See Peace.]

Defn: To make quiet; to calm; to reduce to a state of peace; to
still; to pacify; to dispel (anger or hatred); as, to appease the
tumult of the ocean, or of the passions; to appease hunger or thirst.

Syn.
 -- To pacify; quiet; conciliate; propitiate; assuage; compose; calm;
allay; hush; soothe; tranquilize.

APPEASEMENT
Ap*pease"ment, n.

Defn: The act of appeasing, or the state of being appeased;
pacification. Hayward.

APPEASER
Ap*peas"er, n.

Defn: One who appeases; a pacifier.

APPEASIVE
Ap*pea"sive, a.

Defn: Tending to appease.

APPEL
Ap`pel", n. [F., prop., a call. See Appeal, n.] (Fencing)

Defn: A tap or stamp of the foot as a warning of intent to attack; --
called also attack.

APPELLABLE
Ap*pel"la*ble, a.

Defn: Appealable.

APPELLANCY
Ap*pel"lan*cy, n.

Defn: Capability of appeal.

APPELLANT
Ap*pel"lant, a. Etym: [L. appellans, p. pr. of appellare; cf. F.
appelant. See Appeal.]

Defn: Relating to an appeal; appellate. "An appellant jurisdiction."
Hallam. Party appellant (Law), the party who appeals; appellant; --
opposed to respondent, or appellee. Tomlins.

APPELLANT
Ap*pel"lant, n.

1. (Law)
(a) One who accuses another of felony or treason. [Obs.]
(b) One who appeals, or asks for a rehearing or review of a cause by
a higher tribunal.

2. A challenger. [Obs.] Milton.

3. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who appealed to a general council against the bull
Unigenitus.

4. One who appeals or entreats.

APPELLATE
Ap*pel"late, a. Etym: [L. appelatus, p. p. of appellare.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or taking cognizance of, appeals. "Appellate
jurisdiction." Blackstone. "Appellate judges." Burke. Appelate court,
a court having cognizance of appeals.

APPELLATE
Ap*pel"late, n.

Defn: A person or prosecuted for a crime. [Obs.] See Appellee.

APPELLATION
Ap`pel*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. appellatio, fr. appellare: cf. F.
appellation. See Appeal.]

1. The act of appealing; appeal. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. The act of calling by a name.

3. The word by which a particular person or thing is called and
known; name; title; designation.
They must institute some persons under the appellation of
magistrates. Hume.

Syn.
 -- See Name.

APPELLATIVE
Ap*pel"la*tive, a. Etym: [L. appellativus, fr. appellare: cf. F.
appelatif. See Appeal.]

1. Pertaining to a common name; serving as a distinctive
denomination; denominative; naming. Cudworth.

2. (gram.)

Defn: Common, as opposed to proper; denominative of a class.

APPELLATIVE
Ap*pel"la*tive, n. Etym: [L. appelativum, sc. nomen.]

1. A common name, distinction from a proper name. A common name, or
appellative, stands for a whole class, genus, or species of beings,
or for universal ideas. Thus, tree is the name of all plants of a
particular class; plant and vegetable are names of things that grow
out of the earth. A proper name, on the other hand, stands for a
single thing; as, Rome, Washington, Lake Erie.

2. An appellation or title; a descriptive name.
God chosen it for one of his appellatives to be the Defender of them.
Jer. Taylor.

APPELLATIVELY
Ap*pel"la*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: After the manner of nouns appellative; in a manner to express
whole classes or species; as, Hercules is sometimes used
appellatively, that is, as a common name, to signify a strong man.

APPELLATIVENESS
Ap*pel"la*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being appellative. Fuller.

APPELLATORY
Ap*pel"la*tory, a. Etym: [L. appellatorius, fr. appellare.]

Defn: Containing an appeal.
An appellatory libel ought to contain the name of the party
appellant. Ayliffe.

APPELLEE
Ap`pel*lee", n. Etym: [F. appelé, p. p. of appeler, fr. L.
appellare.] (Law)
(a) The defendant in an appeal; -- opposed to appellant.
(b) The person who is appealed against, or accused of crime; --
opposed to appellor. Blackstone.

APPELLOR
Ap`pel*lor, n. Etym: [OF. apeleur, fr. L. appellator, fr. appellare.]
(Law)
(a) The person who institutes an appeal, or prosecutes another for a
crime. Blackstone.
(b) One who confesses a felony committed and accuses his accomplices.
Blount. Burrill.

Note: This word is rarely or never used for the plaintiff in appeal
from a lower court, who is called the appellant. Appellee is opposed
both to appellant and appellor.

APPENAGE
Ap"pen*age, n.

Defn: See Appanage.

APPEND
Ap*pend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appended; p. pr. & vb. n. Appending.]
Etym: [L. appendere or F. appendre: cf. OE. appenden, apenden, to
belong, OF. apendre, F. appendre, fr. L. append, v. i., to hang to,
append, v. t., to hang to; ad + pend, v. i., to hang, pend, v. t., to
hang. See Pendant.]

1. To hang or attach to, as by a string, so that the thing is
suspended; as, a seal appended to a record; the inscription was
appended to the column.

2. To add, as an accessory to the principal thing; to annex; as,
notes appended to this chapter.
A further purpose appended to the primary one. I. Taylor.

APPENDAGE
Ap*pend"age, n.

1. Something appended to, or accompanying, a principal or greater
thing, though not necessary to it, as a portico to a house.
Modesty is the appendage of sobriety. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: A subordinate or subsidiary part or organ; an external organ or
limb, esp. of the articulates.
Antennæ and other appendages used for feeling. Carpenter.

Syn.
 -- Addition; adjunct; concomitant.

APPENDAGED
Ap*pend"aged, a.

Defn: Furnished with, or supplemented by, an appendage.

APPENDANCE
Ap*pend"ance, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Something appendant.

APPENDANT
Ap*pend"ant, a. Etym: [F. appendant, p. pr. of appendre. See Append,
v. t.]

1. Hanging; annexed; adjunct; concomitant; as, a seal appendant to a
paper.
As they have transmitted the benefit to us, it is but reasonable we
should suffer the appendant calamity. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Law)

Defn: Appended by prescription, that is, a personal usage for a
considerable time; -- said of a thing of inheritance belonging to
another inheritance which is superior or more worthy; as, an
advowson, common, etc. , which may be appendant to a manor, common of
fishing to a freehold, a seat in church to a house. Wharton. Coke.

APPENDANT
Ap*pend"ant, n.

1. Anything attached to another as incidental or subordinate to it.

2. (Law)

Defn: A inheritance annexed by prescription to a superior
inheritance.

APPENDECTOMY; APPENDICECTOMY
Ap`pen*dec"to*my, Ap*pend`i*cec"to*my, n. [Appendix + Gr., fr.
excision.] (Surg.)

Defn: Excision of the vermiform appendix.

APPENDENCE; APPENDENCY
Ap*pend"ence, Ap*pend"en*cy, n.

Defn: State of being appendant; appendance. [Obs.]

APPENDICAL
Ap*pend"i*cal, a.

Defn: Of or like an appendix.

APPENDICATE
Ap*pend"i*cate, v. t.

Defn: To append. [Obs.]

APPENDICATION
Ap*pend`i*ca"tion, n.

Defn: An appendage. [Obs.]

APPENDICITIS
Ap*pend`i*ci"tis, n. (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the vermiform appendix.

APPENDICLE
Ap*pend"i*cle, n. Etym: [L. appendicula, dim. of. appendix.]

Defn: A small appendage.

APPENDICULAR
Ap`pen*dic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Relating to an appendicle; appendiculate. [R.]

APPENDICULARIA
Ap`pen*dic`u*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small free-swimming Tunicata, shaped somewhat like a
tadpole, and remarkable for resemblances to the larvæ of other
Tunicata. It is the type of the order Copelata or Larvalia. See
Illustration in Appendix.

APPENDICULATA
Ap`pen*dic`u*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of annelids; the Polychæta.

APPENDICULATE
Ap`pen*dic"u*late, a. Etym: [See Appendicle.]

Defn: Having small appendages; forming an appendage. Appendiculate
leaf, a small appended leaf. Withering.

APPENDIX
Ap*pen"dix, n.; pl. E. Appendixes, L. Appendices(#). Etym: [L.
appendix, -dicis, fr. appendere. See Append.]

1. Something appended or added; an appendage, adjunct, or
concomitant.
Normandy became an appendix to England. Sir M. Hale.

2. Any literary matter added to a book, but not necessarily essential
to its completeness, and thus distinguished from supplement, which is
intended to supply deficiencies and correct inaccuracies.

Syn.
 -- See Supplement.

APPENDIX VERMIFORMIS
Ap*pen"dix ver`mi*for"mis. [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: The vermiform appendix.

APPENSION
Ap*pen"sion, n.

Defn: The act of appending. [Obs.]

APPERCEIVE
Ap`per*ceive", v. t. Etym: [F. apercevoir, fr. L. ad + percipere,
perceptum, to perceive. See Perceive.]

Defn: To perceive; to comprehend. Chaucer.

APPERCEPTION
Ap`per*cep"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. ad- + perception: cf. F.
apperception.] (Metaph.)

Defn: The mind's perception of itself as the subject or actor in its
own states; perception that reflects upon itself; sometimes,
intensified or energetic perception. Leibnitz. Reid.
This feeling has been called by philosophers the apperception or
consciousness of our own existence. Sir W. Hamilton.

APPERIL
Ap*per"il, n.

Defn: Peril. [Obs.] Shak.

APPERTAIN
Ap`per*tain", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Appertained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appertaining.] Etym: [OE. apperteinen, apertenen, OF. apartenir, F.
appartenir, fr. L. appertinere; ad + pertinere to reach to, belong.
See Pertain.]

Defn: To belong or pertain, whether by right, nature, appointment, or
custom; to relate.
Things appertaining to this life. Hooker.
Give it unto him to whom it appertaineth. Lev. vi. 5.

APPERTAINMENT
Ap`per*tain"ment, n.

Defn: That which appertains to a person; an appurtenance. [Obs. or
R.] Shak.

APPERTINANCE; APPERTINENCE
Ap*per"ti*nance, Ap*per"ti*nence, n.

Defn: See Appurtenance.

APPERTINENT
Ap*per"ti*nent, a.

Defn: Belonging; appertaining. [Now usually written appurtenant.]
Coleridge.

APPERTINENT
Ap*per"ti*nent, n.

Defn: That which belongs to something else; an appurtenant. [Obs.]
Shak.

APPETE
Ap*pete", v. t. Etym: [L. appetere: cf. F. appéter. See Appetite.]

Defn: To seek for; to desire. [Obs.] Chaucer.

APPETENCE
Ap"pe*tence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. appétence. See Appetency.]

Defn: A longing; a desire; especially an ardent desire; appetite;
appetency.

APPETENCY
Ap"pe*ten*cy, n.; pl. Appetencies. Etym: [L. appetentia, fr. appetere
to strive after, long for. See Appetite.]

1. Fixed and strong desire; esp. natural desire; a craving; an eager
appetite.
They had a strong appetency for reading. Merivale.

2. Specifically: An instinctive inclination or propensity in animals
to perform certain actions, as in the young to suck, in aquatic fowls
to enter into water and to swim; the tendency of an organized body to
seek what satisfies the wants of its organism.
These lacteals have mouths, and by animal selection or appetency the
absorb such part of the fluid as is agreeable to their palate. E.
Darwin.

3. Natural tendency; affinity; attraction; -- used of inanimate
objects.

APPETENT
Ap"pe*tent, a. Etym: [L. appetens, p. pr. of appetere.]

Defn: Desiring; eagerly desirous. [R.]
Appetent after glory and renown. Sir G. Buck.

APPETIBILITY
Ap`pe*ti*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. appétibilité.]

Defn: The quality of being desirable. Bramhall.

APPETIBLE
Ap"pe*ti*ble, a. Etym: [L. appetibilis, fr. appetere: cf. F.
appétible.]

Defn: Desirable; capable or worthy of being the object of desire.
Bramhall.

APPETITE
Ap"pe*tite, n. Etym: [OE. appetit, F. appétit, fr. L. appetitus, fr.
appetere to strive after, long for; ad + petere to seek. See
Petition, and cf. Appetence.]

1. The desire for some personal gratification, either of the body or
of the mind.
The object of appetite it whatsoever sensible good may be wished for;
the object of will is that good which reason does lead us to seek.
Hooker.

2. Desire for, or relish of, food or drink; hunger.
Men must have appetite before they will eat. Buckle.

3. Any strong desire; an eagerness or longing.
It God had given to eagles an appetite to swim. Jer. Taylor.
To gratify the vulgar appetite for the marvelous. Macaulay.

4. Tendency; appetency. [Obs.]
In all bodies there as an appetite of union. Bacon.

5. The thing desired. [Obs.]
Power being the natural appetite of princes. Swift.

Note: In old authors, appetite is followed by to or of, but regularly
it should be followed by for before the object; as, an appetite for
pleasure.

Syn.
 -- Craving; longing; desire; appetency; passion.

APPETITION
Ap`pe*ti"tion, n. Etym: [L. appetitio: cf. F. appétition.]

Defn: Desire; a longing for, or seeking after, something. Holland.

APPETITIVE
Ap"pe*ti"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. appétitif.]

Defn: Having the quality of desiring gratification; as, appetitive
power or faculty. Sir M. Hale.

APPETIZE
Ap"pe*tize, v. t.

Defn: To make hungry; to whet the appetite of. Sir W. Scott.

APPETIZER
Ap"pe*ti`zer, n.

Defn: Something which creates or whets an appetite.

APPETIZING
Ap"pe*ti`zing, a. Etym: [Cf. F. appétissant.]

Defn: Exciting appetite; as, appetizing food.
The appearance of the wild ducks is very appetizing. Sir W. Scott.

APPETIZING
Ap"pe*ti`zing, adv.

Defn: So as to excite appetite.

APPIAN
Ap"pi*an, a. Etym: [L. Appius, Appianus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Appius. Appian Way, the great paved highway
from ancient Rome trough Capua to Brundisium, now Brindisi,
constructed partly by Appius Claudius, about 312 b. c.

APPLAUD
Ap*plaud", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Applauded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Applauding.] Etym: [L. applaudere; ad + plaudere to clash, to clap
the hands: cf. F. applaudir. Cf. Explode.]

1. To show approval of by clapping the hands, acclamation, or other
significant sign.
I would applaud thee to the very echo, That should applaud again.
Shak.

2. To praise by words; to express approbation of; to commend; to
approve.
By the gods, I do applaud his courage. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To praise; extol; commend; cry up; magnify; approve. See Praise.

APPLAUD
Ap*plaud", v. i.

Defn: To express approbation loudly or significantly.

APPLAUDER
Ap*plaud"er, n.

Defn: One who applauds.

APPLAUSABLE
Ap*plaus"a*ble, a.

Defn: Worthy pf applause; praiseworthy. [Obs.]

APPLAUSE
Ap*plause", n. Etym: [L. applaudere, app. See Applaud.]

Defn: The act of applauding; approbation and praise publicly
expressed by clapping the hands, stamping or tapping with the feet,
acclamation, huzzas, or other means; marked commendation.
The brave man seeks not popular applause. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Acclaim; acclamation; plaudit; commendation; approval.

APPLAUSIVE
Ap*plau"sive, a. Etym: [LL. applausivus.]

Defn: Expressing applause; approbative.
 -- Ap*plau"sive*ly, adv.

APPLE
Ap"ple, n. Etym: [OE. appel, eppel, AS. æppel, æpl; akin to Fries. &
D. appel, OHG, aphul, aphol, G. apfel, Icel. epli, Sw. äple, Dan.
æble, Gael. ubhall, W. afal, Arm. aval, Lith. ob, Russ. iabloko; of
unknown origin.]

1. The fleshy pome or fruit of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus malus)
cultivated in numberless varieties in the temperate zones.

Note: The European crab apple is supposed to be the original kind,
from which all others have sprung.

2. (bot.)

Defn: Any tree genus Pyrus which has the stalk sunken into the base
of the fruit; an apple tree.

3. Any fruit or other vegetable production resembling, or supposed to
resemble, the apple; as, apple of love, or love apple (a tomato),
balsam apple, egg apple, oak apple.

4. Anything round like an apple; as, an apple of gold.

Note: Apple is used either adjectively or in combination; as, apple
paper or apple-paper, apple-shaped, apple blossom, apple dumpling,
apple pudding. Apple blight, an aphid which injures apple trees. See
Blight, n.
 -- Apple borer (Zoöl.), a coleopterous insect (Saperda candida or
bivittata), the larva of which bores into the trunk of the apple tree
and pear tree.
 -- Apple brandy, brandy made from apples.
 -- Apple butter, a sauce made of apples stewed down in cider.
Bartlett.
 -- Apple corer, an instrument for removing the cores from apples.
 -- Apple fly (Zoöl.), any dipterous insect, the larva of which
burrows in apples. Apple flies belong to the genera Drosophila and
Trypeta.
 -- Apple midge (Zoöl.) a small dipterous insect (Sciara mali), the
larva of which bores in apples.
 -- Apple of the eye, the pupil.
 -- Apple of discord, a subject of contention and envy, so called
from the mythological golden apple, inscribed "For the fairest,"
which was thrown into an assembly of the gods by Eris, the goddess of
discord. It was contended for by Juno, Minerva, and Venus, and was
adjudged to the latter.
 -- Apple of love, or Love apple, the tomato (Lycopersicum
esculentum).
 -- Apple of Peru, a large coarse herb (Nicandra physaloides) bearing
pale blue flowers, and a bladderlike fruit inclosing a dry berry.
 -- Apples of Sodom, a fruit described by ancient writers as
externally of air appearance but dissolving into smoke and ashes
plucked; Dead Sea apples. The name is often given to the fruit of
Solanum Sodomæum, a prickly shrub with fruit not unlike a small
yellow tomato.
 -- Apple sauce, stewed apples. [U. S.] -- Apple snail or Apple shell
(Zoöl.), a fresh-water, operculated, spiral shell of the genus
Ampullaria.
 -- Apple tart, a tart containing apples.
 -- Apple tree, a tree naturally bears apples. See Apple, 2.
 -- Apple wine, cider.
 -- Apple worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Carpocapsa
pomonella) which burrows in the interior of apples. See Codling moth.
 -- Dead Sea Apple. (a) pl. Apples of Sodom. Also Fig. "To seek the
Dead Sea apples of politics." S. B. Griffin. (b) A kind of gallnut
coming from Arabia. See Gallnut.

APPLE
Ap"ple, v. i.

Defn: To grow like an apple; to bear apples. Holland.

APPLE-FACED
Ap"ple-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a round, broad face, like an apple. "Apple-faced
children." Dickens.

APPLE-JACK
Ap"ple-jack`, n.

Defn: Apple brandy. [U.S.]

APPLE-JOHN
Ap"ple-john`, n..

Defn: A kind of apple which by keeping becomes much withered; --
called also Johnapple. Shak.

APPLE PIE
Ap"ple pie`.

Defn: A pie made of apples (usually sliced or stewed) with spice and
sugar. Apple-pie bed, a bed in which, as a joke, the sheets are so
doubled (like the cover of an apple turnover) as to prevent any one
from getting at his length between them. Halliwell, Conybeare.
 -- Apple-pie order, perfect order or arrangement. [Colloq.]
Halliwell.

APPLE-SQUIRE
Ap"ple-squire`, n.

Defn: A pimp; a kept gallant. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

APPLIABLE
Ap*pli"a*ble, a. Etym: [See Apply.]

Defn: Applicable; also, compliant. [Obs.] Howell.

APPLIANCE
Ap*pli"ance, n.

1. The act of applying; application; [Obs.] subservience. Shak.

2. The thing applied or used as a means to an end; an apparatus or
device; as, to use various appliances; a mechanical appliance; a
machine with its appliances.

APPLICABILITY
Ap`pli*ca*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being applicable or fit to be applied.

APPLICABLE
Ap"pli*ca*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aplicable, fr. L. applicare. See
Apply.]

Defn: Capable of being applied; fit or suitable to be applied; having
relevance; as, this observation is applicable to the case under
consideration.
 -- Ap"pli*ca*ble*ness, n.
 -- Ap"pli*ca*bly, adv.

APPLICANCY
Ap"pli*can*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being applicable. [R.]

APPLICANT
Ap"pli*cant, n. Etym: [L. applicans, p. pr. of applicare. See Apply.]

Defn: One who apples for something; one who makes request; a
petitioner.
The applicant for a cup of water. Plumtre.
The court require the applicant to appear in person. Z. Swift.

APPLICATE
Ap"pli*cate, a. Etym: [L. applicatus, p. p. of applicare. See Apply.]

Defn: Applied or put to some use.
Those applicate sciences which extend the power of man over the
elements. I. Taylor.
Applicate number (Math.), one which applied to some concrete case.
 -- Applicate ordinate, right line applied at right angles to the
axis of any conic section, and bounded by the curve.

APPLICATE
Ap"pli*cate, v. i.

Defn: To apply. [Obs.]
The act of faith is applicated to the object. Bp. Pearson.

APPLICATION
Ap`pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. applicatio, fr. applicare: cf. F.
application. See Apply.]

1. The act of applying or laying on, in a literal sense; as, the
application of emollients to a diseased limb.

2. The thing applied.
He invented a new application by which blood might be stanched.
Johnson.

3. The act of applying as a means; the employment of means to
accomplish an end; specific use.
If a right course . . . be taken with children, there will not be
much need of the application of the common rewards and punishments.
Locke.

4. The act of directing or referring something to a particular case,
to discover or illustrate agreement or disagreement, fitness, or
correspondence; as, I make the remark, and leave you to make the
application; the application of a theory.

5. Hence, in specific uses: (a) That part of a sermon or discourse in
which the principles before laid down and illustrated are applied to
practical uses; the "moral" of a fable. (b) The use of the principles
of one science for the purpose of enlarging or perfecting another;
as, the application of algebra to geometry.

6. The capacity of being practically applied or used; relevancy; as,
a rule of general application.

7. The act of fixing the mind or closely applying one's self;
assiduous effort; close attention; as, to injure the health by
application to study.
Had his application been equal to his talents, his progress night
have been greater. J. Jay.

8. The act of making request of soliciting; as, an application for an
office; he made application to a court of chancery.

9. A request; a document containing a request; as, his application
was placed on file.

APPLICATIVE
Ap"pli*ca*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. applicatif, fr. L. applicare. See
Apply.]

Defn: Having of being applied or used; applying; applicatory;
practical. Bramhall.
 -- Ap"pli*ca*tive*ly, adv.

APPLICATORILY
Ap"pli*ca*to*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of application.

APPLICATORY
Ap"pli*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Having the property of applying; applicative; practical.
 -- n.

Defn: That which applies.

APPLIEDLY
Ap*pli"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: By application. [R.]

APPLIER
Ap*pli"er, n.

Defn: He who, or that which, applies.

APPLIMENT
Ap*pli"ment, n.

Defn: Application. [Obs.] Marston

APPLIQUE
Ap`pli`qué", a. Etym: [F., fr. appliquer to put on.]

Defn: Ornamented with a pattern (which has been cut out of another
color or stuff) applied or transferred to a foundation; as, appliqué
lace; appliqué work.

APPLOT
Ap*plot", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Applotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Applotting.]
Etym: [Pref. ad- + plot.]

Defn: To divide into plots or parts; to apportion. Milton.

APPLOTMENT
Ap*plot"ment, n.

Defn: Apportionment.

APPLY
Ap*ply", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Applied; p. pr. & vb. n. Applying.]
Etym: [OF. aplier, F. appliquer, fr. L. applicare to join, fix, or
attach to; ad + plicare to fold, to twist together. See Applicant,
Ply.]

1. To lay or place; to put or adjust (one thing to another); -- with
to; as, to apply the hand to the breast; to apply medicaments to a
diseased part of the body.
He said, and the sword his throat applied. Dryden.

2. To put to use; to use or employ for a particular purpose, or in a
particular case; to appropriate; to devote; as, to apply money to the
payment of a debt.

3. To make use of, declare, or pronounce, as suitable, fitting, or
relative; as, to apply the testimony to the case; to apply an epithet
to a person.
Yet God at last To Satan, first in sin, his doom applied. Milton.

4. To fix closely; to engage and employ diligently, or with
attention; to attach; to incline.
Apply thine heart unto instruction. Prov. xxiii. 12.

5. To direct or address. [R.]
Sacred vows . . . applied to grisly Pluto. Pope.

6. To betake; to address; to refer; -- used reflexively.
I applied myself to him for help. Johnson.

7. To busy; to keep at work; to ply. [Obs.]
She was skillful in applying his "humors." Sir P. Sidney.

8. To visit. [Obs.]
And he applied each place so fast. Chapman.
Applied chemistry. See under Chemistry.
 -- Applied mathematics. See under Mathematics.

APPLY
Ap*ply", v. i.

1. To suit; to agree; to have some connection, agreement, or analogy;
as, this argument applies well to the case.

2. To make request; to have recourse with a view to gain something;
to make application. (to); to solicit; as, to apply to a friend for
information.

3. To ply; to move. [R.]
I heard the sound of an oar applying swiftly through the water. T.
Moore.

4. To apply or address one's self; to give application; to attend
closely (to).

APPOGGIATURA
Ap*pog`gia*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It., fr. appogiarre to lean, to rest; ap-
(L. ad) + poggiare to mount, ascend, poggio hill, fr. L. podium an
elevated place.] (Mus.)

Defn: A passing tone preceding an essential tone, and borrowing the
time it occupies from that; a short auxiliary or grace note one
degree above or below the principal note unless it be of the same
harmony; -- generally indicated by a note of smaller size, as in the
illustration above. It forms no essential part of the harmony.

APPOINT
Ap*point", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appointed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appointing.] Etym: [OE. appointen, apointen, OF. apointier to
prepare, arrange, lean, place, F. appointer to give a salary, refer a
cause, fr. LL. appunctare to bring back to the point, restore, to fix
the point in a controversy, or the points in an agreement; L. ad +
punctum a point. See Point.]

1. To fix with power or firmness; to establish; to mark out.
When he appointed the foundations of the earth. Prov. viii. 29.

2. To fix by a decree, order, command, resolve, decision, or mutual
agreement; to constitute; to ordain; to prescribe; to fix the time
and place of.
Thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall
appoint. 2 Sam. xv. 15.
He hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in
righteousness. Acts xvii. 31.
Say that the emperor request a parley . . . and appoint the meeting.
Shak.

3. To assign, designate, or set apart by authority.
Aaron and his shall go in, and appoint them every one to his service.
Num. iv. 19.
These were cities appointed for all the children of Israel, and for
the stranger that sojourneth among them. Josh. xx. 9.

4. To furnish in all points; to provide with everything necessary by
way of equipment; to equip; to fit out.
The English, being well appointed, did so entertain them that their
ships departed terribly torn. Hayward.

5. To point at by way, or for the purpose, of censure or
commendation; to arraign. [Obs.]
Appoint not heavenly disposition. Milton.

6. (Law)

Defn: To direct, designate, or limit; to make or direct a new
disposition of, by virtue of a power contained in a conveyance; --
said of an estate already conveyed. Burrill. Kent. To appoint one's
self, to resolve. [Obs.] Crowley.

APPOINT
Ap*point", v. i.

Defn: To ordain; to determine; to arrange.
For the Lord had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithoph2
Sam. xvii. 14.

APPOINTABLE
Ap*point"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being appointed or constituted.

APPOINTEE
Ap*point*ee", n. Etym: [F. appointé, p. p. of appointer. See Appoint,
v. t.]

1. A person appointed.
The commission authorizes them to make appointments, and pay the
appointees. Circular of Mass. Representatives (1768).

2. (law)

Defn: A person in whose favor a power of appointment is executed.
Kent. Wharton.

APPOINTER
Ap*point"er, n.

Defn: One who appoints, or executes a power of appointment. Kent.

APPOINTIVE
Ap*point"ive, a.

Defn: Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office. [R.]

APPOINTMENT
Ap*point"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. appointement.]

1. The act of appointing; designation of a person to hold an office
or discharge a trust; as, he erred by the appointment of unsuitable
men.

2. The state of being appointed to somappointment of treasurer.

3. Stipulation; agreement; the act of fixing by mutual agreement.
Hence:: Arrangement for a meeting; engagement; as, they made an
appointment to meet at six.

4. Decree; direction; established order or constitution; as, to
submit to the divine appointments.
According to the appointment of the priests. Ezra vi. 9.

5. (Law)

Defn: The exercise of the power of designating (under a "power of
appointment") a person to enjoy an estate or other specific property;
also, the instrument by which the designation is made.

6. Equipment, furniture, as for a ship or an army; whatever is
appointed for use and management; outfit; (pl.) the accouterments of
military officers or soldiers, as belts, sashes, swords.
The cavaliers emulated their chief in the richness of their
appointments. Prescott.
I'll prove it in my shackles, with these hands Void of appoinment,
that thou liest. Beau. & Fl.

7. An allowance to a person, esp. to a public officer; a perquisite;
-- properly only in the plural. [Obs.]
An expense proportioned to his appointments and fortune is necessary.
Chesterfield.

8. A honorary part or exercise, as an oration, etc., at a public
exhibition of a college; as, to have an appointment. [U.S.]

Syn.
 -- Designation; command; order; direction; establishment; equipment.

APPOINTOR
Ap*point*or", n. (Law)

Defn: The person who selects the appointee. See Appointee, 2.

APPORTER
Ap*por"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apporter to bring in, fr. L. apportare;
ad + portare to bear.]

Defn: A bringer in; an importer. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

APPORTION
Ap*por"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Apportioned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apportioning.] Etym: [OF. apportionner, LL. apportionare, fr. L. ad +
portio. See Portion.]

Defn: To divide and assign in just proportion; to divide and
distribute proportionally; to portion out; to allot; as, to apportion
undivided rights; to apportion time among various employments.

APPORTIONATENESS
Ap*por"tion*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being apportioned or in proportion. [Obs. & R.]

APPORTIONER
Ap*por"tion*er, n.

Defn: One who apportions.

APPORTIONMENT
Ap*por"tion*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apportionnement, LL.
apportionamentum.]

Defn: The act of apportioning; a dividing into just proportions or
shares; a division or shares; a division and assignment, to each
proprietor, of his just portion of an undivided right or property. A.
Hamilton.

APPOSABLE
Ap*pos"a*ble, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Capable of being apposed, or applied one to another, as the
thumb to the fingers of the hand.

APPOSE
Ap*pose", v. t. Etym: [F. apposer to set to; ad) + poser to put,
place. See Pose.]

1. To place opposite or before; to put or apply (one thing to
another).
The nymph herself did then appose, For food and beverage, to him all
best meat. Chapman.

2. To place in juxtaposition or proximity.

APPOSE
Ap*pose", v. t. Etym: [For oppose. See Oppose.]

Defn: To put questions to; to examine; to try. [Obs.] See Pose.
To appose him without any accuser, and that secretly. Tyndale.

APPOSED
Ap*posed", a.

Defn: Placed in apposition; mutually fitting, as the mandibles of a
bird's beak.

APPOSER
Ap*pos"er, n.

Defn: An examiner; one whose business is to put questions. Formerly,
in the English Court of Exchequer, an officer who audited the
sheriffs' accounts.

APPOSITE
Ap"po*site, a. Etym: [L. appositus, p. p. of apponere to set or put
to; ad + ponere to put, place.]

Defn: Very applicable; well adapted; suitable or fit; relevant; pat;
-- followed by to; as, this argument is very apposite to the case.
 -- Ap"po*site*ly, adv.
 -- Ap"po*site*ness, n.

APPOSITION
Ap`po*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. appositio, fr. apponere: cf. F.
apposition. See Apposite.]

1. The act of adding; application; accretion.
It grows . . . by the apposition of new matter. Arbuthnot.

2. The putting of things in juxtaposition, or side by side; also, the
condition of being so placed.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: The state of two nouns or pronouns, put in the same case,
without a connecting word between them; as, I admire Cicero, the
orator. Here, the second noun explains or characterizes the first.
Growth by apposition (Physiol.), a mode of growth characteristic of
non vascular tissues, in which nutritive matter from the blood is
transformed on the surface of an organ into solid unorganized
substance.

APPOSITIONAL
Ap`po*si"tion*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to apposition; put in apposition syntactically.
Ellicott.

APPOSITIVE
Ap*pos"i*tive, a.

Defn: Of or relating to apposition; in apposition.
 -- n.

Defn: A noun in apposition.
 -- Ap*pos"i*tive*ly, adv.
Appositive to the words going immediately before. Knatchbull.

APPRAISABLE
Ap*prais"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being appraised.

APPRAISAL
Ap*prais"al, n. Etym: [See Appraise. Cf. Apprizal.]

Defn: A valuation by an authorized person; an appraisement.

APPRAISE
Ap*praise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appraised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appraising.] Etym: [Pref. ad- + praise. See Praise, Price, Apprize,
Appreciate.]

1. To set a value; to estimate the worth of, particularly by persons
appointed for the purpose; as, to appraise goods and chattels.

2. To estimate; to conjecture.
Enoch . . . appraised his weight. Tennyson.

3. To praise; to commend. [Obs.] R. Browning.
Appraised the Lycian custom. Tennyson.

Note: In the United States, this word is often pronounced, and
sometimes written, apprize.

APPRAISEMENT
Ap*praise"ment, n. Etym: [See Appraise. Cf. Apprizement.]

Defn: The act of setting the value; valuation by an appraiser;
estimation of worth.

APPRAISER
Ap*prais"er, n. Etym: [See Appraise, Apprizer.]

Defn: One who appraises; esp., a person appointed and sworn to
estimate and fix the value of goods or estates.

APPRECATION
Ap`pre*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. apprecari to pray to; ad + precari to
pray, prex, precis, prayer.]

Defn: Earnest prayer; devout wish. [Obs.]
A solemn apprecation of good success. Bp. Hall.

APPRECATORY
Ap"pre*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Praying or wishing good. [Obs.]"Apprecatory benedictions." Bp.
Hall.

APPRECIABLE
Ap*pre"ci*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. appréciable.]

Defn: Capable of being appreciated or estimated; large enough to be
estimated; perceptible; as, an appreciable quantity.
 -- Ap*pre"ci*a*bly, adv.

APPRECIANT
Ap*pre"ci*ant, a.

Defn: Appreciative. [R.]

APPRECIATE
Ap*pre"ci*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appreciated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appreciating.] Etym: [L. appretiatus, p. p. of appretiare to value at
a price, appraise; ad + pretiare to prize, pretium price. Cf.
Appraise.]

1. To set a price or value on; to estimate justly; to value.
To appreciate the motives of their enemies. Gibbon.

3. To raise the value of; to increase the market price of; -- opposed
to depreciate. [U.S.]
Lest a sudden peace should appreciate the money. Ramsay.

4. To be sensible of; to distinguish.
To test the power of bappreciate color. Lubbock.

Syn.
 -- To Appreciate, Estimate, Esteem. Estimate is an act of judgment;
esteem is an act of valuing or prizing, and when applied to
individuals, denotes a sentiment of moral approbation. See Estimate.
Appreciate lies between the two. As compared with estimate, it
supposes a union of sensibility with judgment, producing a nice and
delicate perception. As compared with esteem, it denotes a valuation
of things according to their appropriate and distinctive excellence,
and not simply their moral worth. Thus, with reference to the former
of these (delicate perception), an able writer says. "Women have a
truer appreciation of character than men;" and another remarks, "It
is difficult to appreciate the true force and distinctive sense of
terms which we are every day using." So, also, we speak of the
difference between two things, as sometimes hardly appreciable. With
reference to the latter of these (that of valuation as the result of
a nice perception), we say, "It requires a peculiar cast of character
to appreciate the poetry of Wordsworth;" "He who has no delicacy
himself, can not appreciate it in others;" "The thought of death is
salutary, because it leads us to appreciate worldly things aright."
Appreciate is much used in cases where something is in danger of
being overlooked or undervalued; as when we speak of appreciating the
difficulties of a subject, or the risk of an undertaking. So Lord
Plunket, referring to an "ominous silence" which prevailed among the
Irish peasantry, says, "If you knew now to appreciate that silence,
it is more formidable than the most clamorous opposition." In like
manner, a person who asks some favor of another is apt to say, "I
trust you will appreciate my motives in this request." Here we have
the key to a very frequent use of the word. It is hardly necessary to
say that appreciate looks on the favorable side of things. we never
speak of appreciating a man's faults, but his merits. This idea of
regarding things favorably appears more fully in the word
appreciative; as when we speak of an appreciative audience, or an
appreciative review, meaning one that manifests a quick perception
and a ready valuation of excellence.

APPRECIATE
Ap*pre"ci*ate, v. i.

Defn: To rise in value. [See note under Rise, v. i.] J. Morse.

APPRECIATINGLY
Ap*pre"ci*a`ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In an appreciating manner; with appreciation.

APPRECIATION
Ap*pre`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. appréciation.]

1. A just valuation or estimate of merit, worth, weight, etc.;
recognition of excellence.

2. Accurate perception; true estimation; as, an appreciation of the
difficulties before us; an appreciation of colors.
His foreboding showed his appreciation of Henry's character. J. R.
Green.

3. A rise in value; -- opposed to depreciation.

APPRECIATIVE
Ap*pre"ci*a*tive, a.

Defn: Having or showing a just or ready appreciation or perception;
as, an appreciative audience.
 -- Ap*pre"ci*a*tive*ly, adv.

APPRECIATIVENESS
Ap*pre"ci*a*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being appreciative; quick recognition of
excellence.

APPRECIATOR
Ap*pre"ci*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who appreciates.

APPRECIATORY
Ap*pre"ci*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Showing appreciation; appreciative; as, appreciatory
commendation.
 -- Ap*pre"ci*a*to*ri*ly, adv.

APPREHEND
Ap`pre*hend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Apprehended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apprehending.] Etym: [L. apprehendere; ad + prehendere to lay hold
of, seize; prae before + -hendere (used only in comp.); akin to Gr.
get: cf. F. appréhender. See Prehensile, Get.]

1. To take or seize; to take hold of. [Archaic]
We have two hands to apprehended it. Jer. Taylor.

2. Hence: To take or seize (a person) by legal process; to arrest;
as, to apprehend a criminal.

3. To take hold of with the understanding, that is, to conceive in
the mind; to become cognizant of; to understand; to recognize; to
consider.
This suspicion of Earl Reimund, though at first but a buzz, soon got
a sting in the king's head, and he violently apprehended it. Fuller.
The eternal laws, such as the heroic age apprehended them. Gladstone.

4. To know or learn with certainty. [Obs.]
G. You are too much distrustful of my truth. E. Then you must give me
leave to apprehend The means and manner how. Beau. & Fl.

5. To anticipate; esp., to anticipate with anxiety, dread, or fear;
to fear.
The opposition had more reason than the king to apprehend violence.
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To catch; seize; arrest; detain; capture; conceive; understand;
imagine; believe; fear; dread.
 -- To Apprehend, Comprehend. These words come into comparison as
describing acts of the mind. Apprehend denotes the laying hold of a
thing mentally, so as to understand it clearly, at least in part.
Comprehend denotes the embracing or understanding it in all its
compass and extent. We may apprehended many truths which we do not
comprehend. The very idea of God supposes that he may be apprehended,
though not comprehended, by rational beings. "We may apprehended much
of Shakespeare's aim and intention in the character of Hamlet or King
Lear; but few will claim that they have comprehended all that is
embraced in these characters." Trench.

APPREHEND
Ap`pre*hend", v. i.

1. To think, believe, or be of opinion; to understand; to suppose.

2. To be apprehensive; to fear.
It is worse to apprehend than to suffer. Rowe.

APPREHENDER
Ap`pre*hend"er, n.

Defn: One who apprehends.

APPREHENSIBIITY
Ap`pre*hen`si*bi"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being apprehensible. [R.] De Quincey.

APPREHENSIBLE
Ap`pre*hen"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. apprehensibilis. See Apprehend.]

Defn: Capable of being apprehended or conceived. "Apprehensible by
faith." Bp. Hall.
 -- Ap`*pre*hen"si*bly, adv.

APPREHENSION
Ap`pre*hen"sion, n. Etym: [L. apprehensio: cf. F. appréhension. See
Apprehend.]

1. The act of seizing or taking hold of; seizure; as, the hand is an
organ of apprehension. Sir T. Browne.

2. The act of seizing or taking by legal process; arrest; as, the
felon, after his apprehension, escaped.

3. The act of grasping with the intellect; the contemplation of
things, without affirming, denying, or passing any judgment;
intellection; perception.
Simple apprehension denotes no more than the soul's naked
intellection of an object. Glanvill.

4. Opinion; conception; sentiment; idea.

Note: In this sense, the word often denotes a belief, founded on
sufficient evidence to give preponderation to the mind, but
insufficient to induce certainty; as, in our apprehension, the facts
prove the issue.
To false, and to be thought false, is all one in respect of men, who
act not according to truth, but apprehension. South.

5. The faculty by which ideas are conceived; understanding; as, a man
of dull apprehension.

6. Anticipation, mostly of things unfavorable; distrust or fear at
the prospect of future evil.
After the death of his nephew Caligula, Claudius was in no small
apprehension for his own life. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Apprehension, Alarm. Apprehension springs from a sense of danger
when somewhat remote, but approaching; alarm arises from danger when
announced as near at hand. Apprehension is calmer and more permanent;
alarm is more agitating and transient.

APPREHENSIVE
Ap`pre*hen"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. appréhensif. See Apprehend.]

1. Capable of apprehending, or quick to do so; apt; discerning.
It may be pardonable to imagine that a friend, a kind and
apprehensive . . . friend, is listening to our talk. Hawthorne.

2. Knowing; conscious; cognizant. [R.]
A man that has spent his younger years in vanity and folly, and is,
by the grace of God, apprehensive of it. Jer. Taylor.

3. Relating to the faculty of apprehension.
Judgment . . . is implied in every apprehensive act. Sir W. Hamilton.

4. Anticipative of something unfavorable' fearful of what may be
coming; in dread of possible harm; in expectation of evil.
Not at all apprehensive of evils as a distance. Tillotson.
Reformers . . . apprehensive for their lives. Gladstone.

5. Sensible; feeling; perceptive. [R.]
Thoughts, my tormentors, armed with deadly stings, Mangle my
apprehensive, tenderest parts. Milton.

APPREHENSIVELY
Ap`pre*hen"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an apprehensive manner; with apprehension of danger.

APPREHENSIVENESS
Ap`pre*hen"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being apprehensive.

APPRENTICE
Ap*pren"tice, n. Etym: [OE. apprentice, prentice, OF. aprentis, nom.
of aprentif, fr. apprendare to learn, L. apprendere, equiv. to
apprehendere, to take hold of (by the mind), to comprehend. See
Apprehend, Prentice.]

1. One who is bound by indentures or by legal agreement to serve a
mechanic, or other person, for a certain time, with a view to learn
the art, or trade, in which his master is bound to instruct him.

2. One not well versed in a subject; a tyro.

3. (Old law)

Defn: A barrister, considered a learner of law till of sixteen years'
standing, when he might be called to the rank of serjeant. [Obs.]
Blackstone.

APPRENTICE
Ap*pren"tice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Apprenticed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Apprenticing.]

Defn: To bind to, or put under the care of, a master, for the purpose
of instruction in a trade or business.

APPRENTICEAGE
Ap*pren"tice*age, n. Etym: [F. apprentissage.]

Defn: Apprenticeship. [Obs.]

APPRENTICEHOOD
Ap*pren"tice*hood, n.

Defn: Apprenticeship. [Obs.]

APPRENTICESHIP
Ap*pren"tice*ship, n.

1. The service or condition of an apprentice; the state in which a
person is gaining instruction in a trade or art, under legal
agreement.

2. The time an apprentice is serving (sometimes seven years, as from
the age of fourteen to twenty-one).

APPRESSED; APPREST
Ap*pressed", Ap*prest", a. Etym: [p. p. appress, which is not in use.
See Adpress.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pressed close to, or lying against, something for its whole
length, as against a stem, Gray.

APPRISE
Ap*prise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Apprised; p. pr. & vb. n. Apprising.]
Etym: [F. appris, fem. apprise, p. p. apprendre to learn, to teach,
to inform. Cf. Apprehend, Apprentice.]

Defn: To give notice, verbal or written; to inform; -- followed by
of; as, we will apprise the general of an intended attack; he
apprised the commander of what he had done.

APPRISE
Ap*prise", n.

Defn: Notice; information. [Obs.] Gower.

APPRIZAL
Ap*priz"al, n.

Defn: See Appraisal.

APPRIZE
Ap*prize", v. t. Etym: [The same as Appraise, only more accommodated
to the English form of the L. pretiare.]

Defn: To appraise; to value; to appreciate.

APPRIZEMENT
Ap*prize"ment, n.

Defn: Appraisement.

APPRIZER
Ap*priz"er, n.

1. An appraiser.

2. (Scots Law)

Defn: A creditor for whom an appraisal is made. Sir W. Scott.

APPROACH
Ap*proach", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Approached; p. pr. & vb. n.
Approaching.] Etym: [OE. approchen, aprochen, OF. approcher, LL.
appropriare, fr. L. ad + propiare to draw near, prope near.]

1. To come or go near, in place or time; to draw nigh; to advance
nearer.
Wherefore approached ye so nigh unto the city 2 Sam. xi. 20.
But exhorting one another; and so much the more, as ye see the day
approaching. Heb. x. 25.

2. To draw near, in a figurative sense; to make advances; to
approximate; as, he approaches to the character of the ablest
statesman.

APPROACH
Ap*proach", v. t.

1. To bring near; to cause to draw near; to advance. [Archaic] Boyle.

2. To come near to in place, time, or character; to draw nearer to;
as, to approach the city; to approach my cabin; he approached the age
of manhood.
He was an admirable poet, and thought even to have approached Homer.
Temple.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: To take approaches to.

APPROACH
Ap*proach", n. Etym: [Cf. F. approche. See Approach, v. i.]

1. The act of drawing near; a coming or advancing near. "The approach
of summer." Horsley.
A nearer approach to the human type. Owen.

2. A access, or opportunity of drawing near.
The approach to kings and principal persons. Bacon.

3. pl.

Defn: Movements to gain favor; advances.

4. A way, passage, or avenue by which a place or buildings can be
approached; an access. Macaulay.

5. pl. (Fort.)

Defn: The advanced works, trenches, or covered roads made by
besiegers in their advances toward a fortress or military post.

6. (Hort.)

Defn: See Approaching.

APPROACHABILITY
Ap*proach`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being approachable; approachableness.

APPROACHABLE
Ap*proach"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being approached; accessible; as, approachable
virtue.

APPROACHABLENESS
Ap*proach"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being approachable; accessibility.

APPROACHER
Ap*proach"er, n.

Defn: One who approaches.

APPROACHING
Ap*proach"ing, n. (Hort.)

Defn: The act of ingrafting a sprig or shoot of one tree into
another, without cutting it from the parent stock; -- called, also,
inarching and grafting by approach.

APPROACHLESS
Ap*proach"less, a.

Defn: Impossible to be approached.

APPROACHMENT
Ap*proach"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. approachement.]

Defn: Approach. [Archaic] Holland.

APPROBATE
Ap"pro*bate, a. Etym: [L. approbatus, p. p. of approbare to approve.]

Defn: Approved. [Obs.] Elyot.

APPROBATE
Ap"pro*bate, v. t.

Defn: To express approbation of; to approve; to sanction officially.
I approbate the one, I reprobate the other. Sir W. Hamilton.

Note: This word is obsolete in England, but is occasionally heard in
the United States, chiefly in a technical sense for license; as, a
person is approbated to preach; approbated to keep a public house.
Pickering (1816).

APPROBATION
Ap`pro*ba"tion, n. Etym: [L. approbatio: cf. F. approbation. See
Approve to prove.]

1. Proof; attestation. [Obs.] Shak.

2. The act of approving; an assenting to the propriety of a thing
with some degree of pleasure or satisfaction; approval; sanction;
commendation.
Many . . . joined in a loud hum of approbation. Macaulay.
The silent approbation of one's own breast. Melmoth.
Animals . . . love approbation or praise. Darwin.

3. Probation or novitiate. [Obs.]
This day my sister should the cloister enter, And there receive her
approbation. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Approval; liking; sanction; consent; concurrence.
 -- Approbation, Approval. Approbation and approval have the same
general meaning, assenting to or declaring as good, sanction,
commendation; but approbation is stronger and more positive. "We may
be anxious for the approbation of our friends; but we should be still
more anxious for the approval of our own consciences." "He who is
desirous to obtain universal approbation will learn a good lesson
from the fable of the old man and his ass." "The work has been
examined by several excellent judges, who have expressed their
unqualified approval of its plan and execution."

APPROBATIVE
Ap"pro*ba*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. approbatif.]

Defn: Approving, or implying approbation. Milner.

APPROBATIVENESS
Ap"pro*ba*tive*ness, n.

1. The quality of being approbative.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: Love of approbation.

APPROBATOR
Ap"pro*ba`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who approves. [R.]

APPROBATORY
Ap"pro*ba`to*ry, a.

Defn: Containing or expressing approbation; commendatory. Sheldon.

APPROMT
Ap*promt", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + promt.]

Defn: To quicken; to prompt. [Obs.]
To appromt our invention. Bacon.

APPROOF
Ap*proof", n. Etym: [See Approve, and Proof.]

1. Trial; proof. [Archaic] Shak.

2. Approval; commendation. Shak.

APPROPINQUATE
Ap`pro*pin"quate, v. i. Etym: [L. appropinquatus, p. p. of
appropinquare; ad + prope near.]

Defn: To approach. [Archaic] Ld. Lytton.

APPROPINQUATION
Ap`pro*pin*qua"tion, n. Etym: [L. appropinquatio.]

Defn: A drawing nigh; approach. [R.] Bp. Hall.

APPROPINQUITY
Ap`pro*pin"qui*ty, n. Etym: [Pref. ad- + propinquity.]

Defn: Nearness; propinquity. [R.] J. Gregory.

APPROPRE
Ap*pro"pre, v. t. Etym: [OE. appropren, apropren, OF. approprier, fr.
L. appropriare. See Appropriate.]

Defn: To appropriate. [Obs.] Fuller.

APPROPRIABLE
Ap*pro"pri*a*ble, a. Etym: [See Appropriate.]

Defn: Capable of being appropriated, set apart, sequestered, or
assigned exclusively to a particular use. Sir T. Browne.

APPROPRIAMENT
Ap*pro"pri*a*ment, n.

Defn: What is peculiarly one's own; peculiar qualification.[Obs.]
If you can neglect Your own appropriaments. Ford.

APPROPRIATE
Ap*pro"pri*ate, a. Etym: [L. appropriatus, p. p. of appropriare; ad +
propriare to appropriate, fr. proprius one's own, proper. See
Proper.]

Defn: Set apart for a particular use or person. Hence: Belonging
peculiarly; peculiar; suitable; fit; proper.
In its strict and appropriate meaning. Porteus.
Appropriate acts of divine worship. Stillingfleet.
It is not at all times easy to find words appropriate to express our
ideas. Locke.

APPROPRIATE
Ap*pro"pri*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Appropriated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Appropriating.]

1. To take to one's self in exclusion of others; to claim or use as
by an exclusive right; as, let no man appropriate the use of a common
benefit.

2. To set apart for, or assign to, a particular person or use, in
exclusion of all others; -- with to or for; as, a spot of ground is
appropriated for a garden; to appropriate money for the increase of
the navy.

3. To make suitable; to suit. [Archaic] Paley.

4. (Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: To annex, as a benefice, to a spiritual corporation, as its
property. Blackstone.

APPROPRIATE
Ap*pro"pri*ate, n.

Defn: A property; attribute. [Obs.]

APPROPRIATELY
Ap*pro"pri*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In an appropriate or proper manner; fitly; properly.

APPROPRIATENESS
Ap*pro"pri*ate*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being appropriate; peculiar fitness.
Froude.

APPROPRIATION
Ap*pro`pri*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. appropriatio: cf. F. appropriation.]

1. The act of setting apart or assigning to a particular use or
person, or of taking to one's self, in exclusion of all others;
application to a special use or purpose, as of a piece of ground for
a park, or of money to carry out some object.

2. Anything, especially money, thus set apart.
The Commons watched carefully over the appropriation. Macaulay.

3. (Law)
(a) The severing or sequestering of a benefice to the perpetual use
of a spiritual corporation. Blackstone.
(b) The application of payment of money by a debtor to his creditor,
to one of several debts which are due from the former to the latter.
Chitty.

APPROPRIATIVE
Ap*pro"pri*a*tive, a.

Defn: Appropriating; making, or tending to, appropriation; as, an
appropriative act.
 -- Ap*pro"pri*a*tive*ness, n.

APPROPRIATOR
Ap*pro"pri*a`tor, n.

1. One who appropriates.

2. (Law)

Defn: A spiritual corporation possessed of an appropriated benefice;
also, an impropriator.

APPROVABLE
Ap*prov"a*ble, a.

Defn: Worthy of being approved; meritorious.
 -- Ap*prov"a*ble*ness, n.

APPROVAL
Ap*prov"al, n.

Defn: Approbation; sanction.
A censor . . . without whose approval nTemple.

Syn.
 -- See Approbation.

APPROVANCE
Ap*prov"ance, n.

Defn: Approval. [Archaic] Thomson.

APPROVE
Ap*prove", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Approved; p. pr. & vb. n. Approving.]
Etym: [OE. aproven, appreven, to prove, OF. aprover, F. approuver, to
approve, fr. L. approbare; ad + probare to esteem as good, approve,
prove. See Prove, and cf. Approbate.]

1. To show to be real or true; to prove. [Obs.]
Wouldst thou approve thy constancy Approve First thy obedience.
Milton.

2. To make proof of; to demonstrate; to prove or show practically.
Opportunities to approve . . . worth. Emerson.
He had approved himself a great warrior. Macaulay.
'T is an old lesson; Time approves it true. Byron.
His account . . . approves him a man of thought. Parkman.

3. To sanction officially; to ratify; to confirm; as, to approve the
decision of a court-martial.

4. To regard as good; to commend; to be pleased with; to think well
of; as, we approve the measured of the administration.

5. To make or show to be worthy of approbation or acceptance.
The first care and concern must be to approve himself to God. Rog

Note: This word, when it signifies to be pleased with, to think
favorably (of), is often followed by of.
They had not approved of the deposition of James. Macaulay.
They approved of the political institutions. W. Black.

APPROVE
Ap*prove", v. t. Etym: [OF. aprouer; (L. ad) + a form apparently
derived fr. the pro, prod, in L. prodest it is useful or profitable,
properly the preposition pro for. Cf. Improve.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: To make profit of; to convert to one's own profit; said esp. of
waste or common land appropriated by the lord of the manor.

APPROVEDLY
Ap*prov"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to secure approbation; in an approved manner.

APPROVEMENT
Ap*prove"ment, n. [Obs.]

1. Approbation.
I did nothing without your approvement. Hayward.

2. (Eng. Law)

Defn: a confession of guilt by a prisoner charged with treason or
felony, together with an accusation of his accomplish and a giving
evidence against them in order to obtain his own pardon. The term is
no longer in use; it corresponded to what is now known as turning
king's (or queen's) evidence in England, and state's evidence in the
United States. Burrill. Bouvier.

APPROVEMENT
Ap*prove"ment, n. (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: Improvement of common lands, by inclosing and converting them
to the uses of husbandry for the advantage of the lord of the manor.
Blackstone.

APPROVER
Ap*prov"er, n.

1. One who approves. Formerly, one who made proof or trial.

2. An informer; an accuser. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. (Eng. Law)

Defn: One who confesses a crime and accuses another. See 1st
Approvement, 2.

APPROVER
Ap*prov"er, n. Etym: [See 2d Approve, v. t.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: A bailiff or steward; an agent. [Obs.] Jacobs.

APPROVING
Ap*prov"ing, a.

Defn: Expressing approbation; commending; as, an approving smile.
 -- Ap*prov"ing*ly, adv.

APPROXIMATE
Ap*prox"i*mate, a. Etym: [L. approximatus, p. p. of approximare to
approach; ad + proximare to come near. See Proximate.]

1. Approaching; proximate; nearly resembling.

2. Near correctness; nearly exact; not perfectly accurate; as,
approximate results or values. Approximate quantities (Math.), those
which are nearly, but not, equal.

APPROXIMATE
Ap*prox"i*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Approximated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Approximating.]

1. To carry or advance near; to cause to approach.
To approximate the inequality of riches to the level of nature.
Burke.

2. To come near to; to approach.
The telescope approximates perfection. J. Morse.

APPROXIMATE
Ap*prox"i*mate, v. i.

Defn: To draw; to approach.

APPROXIMATELY
Ap*prox"i*mate*ly, adv.

Defn: With approximation; so as to approximate; nearly.

APPROXIMATION
Ap*prox`i*ma"tion. n. Etym: [Cf. F. approximation, LL. approximatio.]

1. The act of approximating; a drawing, advancing or being near;
approach; also, the result of approximating.
The largest capacity and the most noble dispositions are but an
approximation to the proper standard and true symmetry of human
nature. I. Taylor.

2. An approach to a correct estimate, calculation, or conception, or
to a given quantity, quality, etc.

3. (Math.)
(a) A continual approach or coming nearer to a result; as, to solve
an equation by approximation.
(b) A value that is nearly but not exactly correct.

APPROXIMATIVE
Ap*prox"i*ma*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. approximatif.]

Defn: Approaching; approximate.
 -- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ness, n.

APPROXIMATOR
Ap*prox"i*ma`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, approximates.

APPUI
Ap`pui", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. ad + podium foothold, Gr.

Defn: A support or supporter; a stay; a prop. [Obs.]
If a be to climb trees that are of any great height, there would be
stays and appuies set to it. Holland.
Point d'appui. Etym: [F., a point of support.] (Mil.) (a) A given
point or body, upon which troops are formed, or by which are marched
in line or column. (b) An advantageous defensive support, as a
castle, morass, wood, declivity, etc.

APPULSE
Ap"pulse, n. Etym: [L. appulsus, fr. appellere, appulsum, to drive
to; ad + pellere to drive: cf. F. appulse.]

1. A driving or running towards; approach; impulse; also, the act of
striking against.
In all consonants there is an appulse of the organs. Holder.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The near approach of one heavenly body to another, or to the
meridian; a coming into conjunction; as, the appulse of the moon to a
star, or of a star to the meridian.

APPULSION
Ap*pul"sion, n.

Defn: A driving or striking against; an appulse.

APPULSIVE
Ap*pul"sive, a.

Defn: Striking against; impinging; as, the appulsive influence of the
planets. P. Cyc.

APPULSIVELY
Ap*pul"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: By appulsion.

APPURTENANCE
Ap*pur"te*nance, n. Etym: [OF. apurtenaunce, apartenance, F.
appartenance, LL. appartenentia, from L. appertinere. See Appertain.]

Defn: That which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage;
an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; in
common parlance and legal acceptation, something belonging to another
thing as principal, and which passes as incident to it, as a right of
way, or other easement to land; a right of common to pasture, an
outhouse, barn, garden, or orchard, to a house or messuage. In a
strict legal sense, land can never pass as an appurtenance to land.
Tomlins. Bouvier. Burrill.
Globes . . . provided as appurtenances to astronomy. Bacon.
The structure of the eye, and of its appurtenances. Reid.

APPURTENANT
Ap*pur"te*nant, a. Etym: [F. appartenant, p. pr. of appartenir. See
Appurtenance.]

Defn: Annexed or pertaining to some more important thing; accessory;
incident; as, a right of way appurtenant to land or buildings.
Blackstone. Common appurtenatn. (Law) See under Common, n.

APPURTENANT
Ap*pur"te*nant, n,

Defn: Something which belongs or appertains to another thing; an
appurtenance.
Mysterious appurtenants and symbols of redemption. Coleridge.

APRICATE
Ap"ri*cate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. apricatus, p. p. of apricare, fr.
apricus exposed to the sun, fr. aperire to uncover, open.]

Defn: To bask in the sun. Boyle.

APRICATION
Ap`ri*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Basking in the sun. [R.]

APRICOT
A"pri*cot, n. Etym: [OE. apricock, abricot, F. abricot, fr. Sp.
albaricoque or Pg. albricoque, fr. Ar. albirq, al-burq. Though the E.
and F. form abricot is derived from the Arabic through the Spanish,
yet the Arabic word itself was formed from the Gr. praecoquus,
praecox, early ripe. The older E. form apricock was prob. taken
direct from Pg. See Precocious, Cook.] (Bot.)

Defn: A fruit allied to the plum, of an orange color, oval shape, and
delicious taste; also, the tree (Prunus Armeniaca of Linnæus) which
bears this fruit. By cultivation it has been introduced throughout
the temperate zone.

APRIL
A"pril, n. Etym: [L. Aprilis. OE. also Averil, F. Avril, fr. L.
Aprilis.]

1. The fourth month of the year.

2. Fig.: With reference to April being the month in which vegetation
begins to put forth, the variableness of its weather, etc.
The April's her eyes; it is love's spring. Shak.
April fool, one who is sportively imposed upon by others on the first
day of April.

A PRIORI
A` pri*o"ri. Etym: [L. a (ab) + prior former.]

1. (Logic)

Defn: Characterizing that kind of reasoning which deduces
consequences from definitions formed, or principles assumed, or which
infers effects from causes previously known; deductive or
deductively. The reverse of a posteriori.

3. (Philos.)

Defn: Applied to knowledge and conceptions assumed, or presupposed,
as prior to experience, in order to make experience rational or
possible.
A priori, that is, form these necessities of the mind or forms of
thinking, which, though first revealed to us by experience, must yet
have preëxisted in order to make experience possible. Coleridge.

APRIORISM
A`pri*o"rism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. apriorisme.]

Defn: An a priori principle.

APRIORITY
A`pri*or"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being innate in the mind, or prior to
experience; a priori reasoning.

APROCTA
A*proc"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Turbellaria in which there is no anal aperture.

APROCTOUS
A*proc"tous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Without an anal office.

APRON
A"pron, n. Etym: [OE. napron, OF. naperon, F. napperon, dim. of OF.
nape, F. nappe, cloth, tablecloth, LL. napa, fr. L. mappa, napkin,
table napkin. See Map.]

1. An article of dress, of cloth, leather, or other stuff, worn on
the fore part of the body, to keep the clothes clean, to defend them
from injury, or as a covering. It is commonly tied at the waist by
strings.

2. Something which by its shape or use suggests an apron; as, (a) The
fat skin covering the belly of a goose or duck. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.
(b) A piece of leather, or other material, to be spread before a
person riding on an outside seat of a vehicle, to defend him from the
rain, snow, or dust; a boot. "The weather being too hot for the
apron." Hughes.
(c) (Gun.) A leaden plate that covers the vent of a cannon.
(d) (Shipbuilding) A piece of carved timber, just above the foremost
end of the keel. Totten.
(e) A platform, or flooring of plank, at the entrance of a dock,
against which the dock gates are shut.
(f) A flooring of plank before a dam to cause the water to make a
gradual descent.
(g) (Mech.) The piece that holds the cutting tool of a planer.
(h) (Plumbing) A strip of lead which leads the drip of a wall into a
gutter; a flashing.
(i) (Zoöl.) The infolded abdomen of a crab.

APRONED
A"proned, a.

Defn: Wearing an apron.
A cobbler aproned, and a parson gowned. Pope.

APRONFUL
A"pron*ful, n.; pl. Apronfuls.

Defn: The quality an apron can hold.

APRONLESS
A"pron*less, a.

Defn: Without an apron.

APRON MAN
A"pron man`.

Defn: A man who wears an apron; a laboring man; a mechanic. [Obs.]
Shak.

APRON STRING
A"pron string`.

Defn: The string of an apron. To be tied to a wife's or mother's
apron strings, to be unduly controlled by a wife or mother.
He was so made that he could not submit to be tied to the apron
strings even of the best of wives. Macaulay.

APROPOS
Ap"ro*pos`, a. & adv. Etym: [F. ad) + propos purpose, L. proposium
plan, purpose, fr. proponere to propose. See Propound.]

1. Opportunely or opportune; seasonably or seasonable.
A tale extremely apropos. Pope.

2. By the way; to the purpose; suitably to the place or subject; -- a
word used to introduce an incidental observation, suited to the
occasion, though not strictly belonging to the narration.

APSE
Apse, n.; pl. Apses. [See Apsis.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) A projecting part of a building, esp. of a church, having in the
plan a polygonal or semicircular termination, and, most often,
projecting from the east end. In early churches the Eastern apse was
occupied by seats for the bishop and clergy. Hence:
(b) The bishop's seat or throne, in ancient churches.

2. A reliquary, or case in which the relics of saints were kept.

Note: This word is also written apsis and absis.

APSIDAL
Ap"si*dal, a.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the apsides of an orbit.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the apse of a church; as, the apsidal
termination of the chancel.

APSIDES
Ap"si*des, n. pl.

Defn: See Apsis.

APSIS
Ap"sis, n.; pl. Apsides. See Apse. Etym: [L. apsis, absis, Gr.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite,
which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body,
corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet, or to the
apogee and perigee of the moon. The more distant is called the higher
apsis; the other, the lower apsis; and the line joining them, the
line of apsides.

2. (Math.)

Defn: In a curve referred to polar coördinates, any point for which
the radius vector is a maximum or minimum.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Apse.

APT
Apt, a Etym: [F. apte, L. aptus, fr. obsolete apere to fasten, to
join, to fit, akin to apisci to reach, attain: cf. Gr. apta fit, fr.
ap to reach attain.]

1. Fit or fitted; suited; suitable; appropriate.
They have always apt instruments. Burke.
A river . . . apt to be forded by a lamb. Jer. Taylor.

2. Having an habitual tendency; habitually liable or likely; -- used
of things.
My vines and peaches . . . were apt to have a soot or smuttiness upon
their leaves and fruit. Temple.
This tree, if unprotected, is apt to be stripped of the leaves by a
leaf-cutting ant. Lubbock.

3. Inclined; disposed customarily; given; ready; -- used of persons.
Apter to give than thou wit be to ask. Beau. & Fl.
That lofty pity with which prosperous folk are apt to remember their
grandfathers. F. Harrison.

4. Ready; especially fitted or qualified (to do something); quick to
learn; prompt; expert; as, a pupil apt to learn; an apt scholar. "An
apt wit." Johnson.
Live a thousand years, I shall not find myself so apt to die. Shak.
I find thee apt . . . Now, Hamlet, hear. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Fit; meet; suitable; qualified; inclined; disposed; liable;
ready; quick; prompt.

APT
Apt, v. t. Etym: [L. aptare. See Aptate.]

Defn: To fit; to suit; to adapt. [Obs.] " To apt their places." B.
Jonson.
That our speech be apted to edification. Jer. Taylor.

APTABLE
Apt"a*ble, a. Etym: [LL. aptabilis, fr. L. aptare.]

Defn: Capable of being adapted. [Obs.] Sherwood.

APTATE
Ap"tate, v. t. Etym: [L. aptatus, p. p. of aptare. See Apt.]

Defn: To make fit. [Obs.] Bailey

APTERA
Ap"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL. aptera, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnæn order of
insects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders,
centipeds, and even worms. These animals are now placed in several
distinct classes and orders.

APTERAL
Ap"ter*al, a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Apterous.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Without lateral columns; -- applied to buildings which have no
series of columns along their sides, but are either prostyle or
amphiprostyle, and opposed to peripteral. R. Cyc.

APTERAN
Ap"ter*an, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Aptera.

APTERIA
Ap*te"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Aptera.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Naked spaces between the feathered areas of birds. See
Pteryliæ.

APTEROUS
Ap"ter*ous, a.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of wings; apteral; as, apterous insects.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of winglike membranous expansions, as a stem or
petiole; -- opposed to atate.

APTERYGES
Ap*ter"y*ges, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Apteryx.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of birds, including the genus Apteryx.

APTERYX
Ap"te*ryx, n. Etym: [Gr. Aptera.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of New Zealand birds about the size of a hen, with only
short rudiments of wings, armed with a claw and without a tail; the
kiwi. It is allied to the gigantic extinct moas of the same country.
Five species are known.

APTITUDE
Apt"i*tude, n. Etym: [F. aptitude, LL. aptitudo, fr. L. aptus. See
Apt, and cf. Attitude.]

1. A natural or acquired disposition or capacity for a particular
purpose, or tendency to a particular action or effect; as, oil has an
aptitude to burn.
He seems to have had a peculiar aptitude for the management of
irregular troops. Macaulay.

2. A general fitness or suitableness; adaptation.
That sociable and helpful aptitude which God implanted between man
and woman. Milton.

3. Readiness in learning; docility; aptness.
He was a boy of remarkable aptitude. Macaulay.

APTITUDINAL
Apt`i*tu"di*nal, a.

Defn: Suitable; fit. [Obs.]

APTLY
Apt"ly, adv.

Defn: In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently;
appropriately; readily.

APTNESS
Apt"ness, n.

1. Fitness; suitableness; appropriateness; as, the aptness of things
to their end.
The aptness of his quotations. J. R. Green.

2. Disposition of the mind; propensity; as, the aptness of men to
follow example.

3. Quickness of apprehension; readiness in learning; docility; as, an
aptness to learn is more observable in some children than in others.

4. Proneness; tendency; as, the aptness of iron to rust.

APTOTE
Ap"tote, n. Etym: [L. aptotum, Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun.

APTOTIC
Ap*tot"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, aptotes; uninflected; as,
aptotic languages.

APTYCHUS
Ap"ty*chus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A shelly plate found in the terminal chambers of ammonite
shells. Some authors consider them to be jaws; others, opercula.

APUS
A"pus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Apode, n.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod.

APYRETIC
Ap`y*ret"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. a not + pyretic.] (Med.)

Defn: Without fever; -- applied to days when there is an intermission
of fever. Dunglison.

APYREXIA; APYREXY
Ap`y*rex"i*a, Ap`y*rex`y, n. Etym: [NL. apyrexia, fr. Gr. apyrexie.]
(Med.)

Defn: The absence or intermission of fever.

APYREXIAL
Ap`y*rex"i*al, a. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to apyrexy. "Apyrexial period." Brande & C.

APYROUS
Ap"y*rous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Incombustible; capable of sustaining a strong heat without
alteration of form or properties.

AQUA
A"qua, n. Etym: [L. See Ewer.]

Defn: Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry,
in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed.
Aqua ammoniæ, the aqueous solution of ammonia; liquid ammonia; often
called aqua ammonia.
 -- Aqua marine, or Aqua marina. Same as Aquamarine.
 -- Aqua regia. Etym: [L., royal water] (Chem.), a very corrosive
fuming yellow liquid consisting of nitric and hydrochloric acids. It
has the power of dissolving gold, the "royal" metal.
 -- Aqua Tofana, a fluid containing arsenic, and used for secret
poisoning, made by an Italian woman named Tofana, in the middle of
the 17th century, who is said to have poisoned more than 600 persons.
Francis.
 -- Aqua vitæ Etym: [L., water of life. Cf. Eau de vie, Usquebaugh],
a name given to brandy and some other ardent spirits. Shak.

AQUA FORTIS
A`qua for"tis. Etym: [L., strong water.] (Chem.)

Defn: Nitric acid. [Archaic]

AQUAMARINE
A`qua*ma*rine", n. (Min.)

Defn: A transparent, pale green variety of beryl, used as a gem. See
Beryl.

AQUAPUNCTURE
A`qua*punc"ture, n. Etym: [L. aqua water, + punctura puncture,
pungere, punctum, to, prick.] (Med.)

Defn: The introduction of water subcutaneously for the relief of
pain.

AQUARELLE
Aq`ua*relle", n. Etym: [F., fr. Ital acquerello, fr. acqua water, L.
aqua.]

Defn: A design or painting in thin transparent water colors; also,
the mode of painting in such colors.

AQUARELLIST
Aq`ua*rel"list, n.

Defn: A painter in thin transparent water colors.

AQUARIAL; AQUARIAN
A*qua"ri*al, A*qua"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an aquarium.

AQUARIAN
A*qua"ri*an, n. Etym: [L. (assumed) Aquarianus, fr. aqua: cf. F.
Aquarien. See Aqua.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of Christian in the primitive church who used
water instead of wine in the Lord's Supper.

AQUARIUM
A*qua"ri*um, n.; pl. E. Aquariums, L. Aquaria. Etym: [L. See
Aquarius, Ewer.]

Defn: An artificial pond, or a globe or tank (usually with glass
sides), in which living specimens of aquatic animals or plants are
kept.

AQUARIUS
A*qua"ri*us, n. Etym: [L. aquarius, adj., relating to water, and n.,
a water-carrier, fr. aqua. See Aqua.] (Astron.)
(a) The Water-bearer; the eleventh sign in the zodiac, which the sun
enters about the 20th of January; -- so called from the rains which
prevail at that season in Italy and the East.
(b) A constellation south of Pegasus.

AQUATIC
A*quat"ic, a. Etym: [L. aquaticus: cf. F. aquatique. See Aqua.]

Defn: Pertaining to water growing in water; living in, swimming in,
or frequenting the margins of waters; as, aquatic plants and fowls.

AQUATIC
A*quat`ic, n.

1. An aquatic animal or plant.

2. pl.

Defn: Sports or exercises practiced in or on the water.

AQUATICAL
A*quat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Aquatic. [R.]

AQUATILE
Aq"ua*tile, a. Etym: [L. aquatilis: cf. F. aquatile.]

Defn: Inhabiting the water. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

AQUATINT; AQUATINTA
A"qua*tint, A`qua*tin"ta, n. Etym: [It. acquatinta dyed water; acqua
(L. aqua) water + tinto, fem. tinta, dyed. See Tint.]

Defn: A kind of etching in which spaces are bitten by the use of aqua
fortis, by which an effect is produced resembling a drawing in water
colors or India ink; also, the engraving produced by this method.

AQUEDUCT
Aq"ue*duct, n. Etym: [F. aqueduc, OF. aqueduct (Cotgr.), fr. L.
aquaeductus; aquae, gen. of aqua water + ductus a leading, ducere to
lead. See Aqua, Duke.]

1. A conductor, conduit, or artificial channel for conveying water,
especially one for supplying large cities with water.

Note: The term is also applied to a structure (similar to the ancient
aqueducts), for conveying a canal over a river or hollow; more
properly called an aqueduct bridge.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A canal or passage; as, the aqueduct of Sylvius, a channel
connecting the third and fourth ventricles of the brain.

AQUEITY
A*que"i*ty, n.

Defn: Wateriness. [Obs.]

AQUEOUS
A"que*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aqueux, L. aquosus, fr. aqua. See Aqua,
Aquose.]

1. Partaking of the nature of water, or abounding with it; watery.
The aqueous vapor of the air. Tyndall.

2. Made from, or by means of, water.
An aqueous deposit. Dana.
Aqueous extract, an extract obtained from a vegetable substance by
steeping it in water.
 -- Aqueous humor (Anat.), one the humors of the eye; a limpid fluid,
occupying the space between the crystalline lens and the cornea. (See
Eye.) -- Aqueous rocks (Geol.), those which are deposited from water
and lie in strata, as opposed to volcanic rocks, which are of igneous
origin; -- called also sedimentary rocks.

AQUEOUSNESS
A`que*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Wateriness.

AQUIFEROUS
A*quif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. aqua water + -ferous.]

Defn: Consisting or conveying water or a watery fluid; as, aquiferous
vessels; the aquiferous system.

AQUIFORM
A"qui*form, a. Etym: [L. aqua water + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of water.

AQUILA
Aq"ui*la, n; pl. Aquilæ. Etym: [L., an eagle.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of eagles.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A northern constellation southerly from Lyra and Cygnus and
preceding the Dolphin; the Eagle. Aquila alba Etym: [L., white
eagle], an alchemical name of calomel. Brande & C.

AQUILATED
Aq"ui*la`ted, a. (Her.)

Defn: Adorned with eagles' heads.

AQUILINE
Aq"ui*line, a. Etym: [L. aquilinus, fr. aquila eagle: cf. F. aquilin.
See Eagle. ]

1. Belonging to or like an eagle.

2. Curving; hooked; prominent, like the beak of an eagle; -- applied
particularly to the nose
Terribly arched and aquiline his nose. Cowper.

AQUILON
Aq"ui*lon, n. Etym: [L. aquilo, -lonis: cf. F. aquilon.]

Defn: The north wind. [Obs.] Shak.

AQUIPAROUS
A*quip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. aqua water + parere to bring forth.]
(Med.)

Defn: Secreting water; -- applied to certain glands. Dunglison.

AQUITANIAN
Aq`ui*ta"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aquitania, now called Gascony.

AQUOSE
A*quose", a. Etym: [L. aquosus watery, fr. aqua. See Aqua, Aqueous.]

Defn: Watery; aqueous. [R.] Bailey.

AQUOSITY
A*quos"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. aquositas.]

Defn: The condition of being wet or watery; wateriness. Huxley.
Very little water or aquosity is found in their belly. Holland.

AR
Ar, conj.

Defn: Ere; before. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARA
A"ra, n. Etym: [L.] (Astron.)

Defn: The Altar; a southern constellation, south of the tail of the
Scorpion.

ARA
A"ra, n. Etym: [Native Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name of the great blue and yellow macaw (Ara ararauna),
native of South America.

ARAB
Ar"ab, n. Etym: [Prob. ultimately fr. Heb. arabah a desert, the name
employed, in the Old Testament, to denote the valley of the Jordan
and Dead Sea. Ar. Arab, Heb. arabi, arbi, arbim: cf. F. Arabe, L.
Arabs, Gr.

Defn: One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria,
Northern Africa, etc. Street Arab, a homeless vagabond in the streets
of a city, particularly and outcast boy or girl. Tylor.
The ragged outcasts and street Arabs who are shivering in damp
doorways. Lond. Sat. Rev.

ARABA
A*ra"ba, n. [Written also aroba and arba.] [Ar. or Turk. 'arabah: cf.
Russ. arba.]

Defn: A wagon or cart, usually heavy and without springs, and often
covered. [Oriental]

The araba of the Turks has its sides of latticework to admit the air
Balfour (Cyc. of India).

ARABESQUE
Ar`a*besque", n. Etym: [F. arabesque, fr. It. arabesco, fr. Arabo
Arab.]

Defn: A style of ornamentation either painted, inlaid, or carved in
low relief. It consists of a pattern in which plants, fruits,
foliage, etc., as well as figures of men and animals, real or
imaginary, are fantastically interlaced or put together.

Note: It was employed in Roman imperial ornamentation, and appeared,
without the animal figures, in Moorish and Arabic decorative art.
(See Moresque.) The arabesques of the Renaissance were founded on
Greco-Roman work.

ARABESQUE
Ar`a*besque", a.

1. Arabian. [Obs.]

2. Relating to, or exhibiting, the style of ornament called
arabesque; as, arabesque frescoes.

ARABESQUED
Ar`a*besqued", a.

Defn: Ornamented in the style of arabesques.

ARABIAN
A*ra"bi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Arabia or its inhabitants. Arabian bird,
the phenix. Shak.

ARABIAN
A*ra"bi*an, n.

Defn: A native of Arabia; an Arab.

ARABIC
Ar"a*bic, a. Etym: [L. Arabicus, fr. Arabia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians. Arabic numerals or
figures, the nine digits, 1, 2, 3, etc., and the cipher 0.
 -- Gum arabic. See under Gum.

ARABIC
Ar"a*bic, n.

Defn: The language of the Arabians.

Note: The Arabic is a Semitic language, allied to the Hebrew. It is
very widely diffused, being the language in which all Mohammedans
must read the Koran, and is spoken as a vernacular tongue in Arabia,
Syria, and Northern Africa.

ARABICAL
A*rab"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to Arabia; Arabic.
 -- A*rab"ic*al*ly, adv.

ARABIN
Ar"a*bin, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gum
arabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance.

2. Mucilage, especially that made of gum arabic.

ARABINOSE
Ar"a*bin*ose`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A sugar of the composition C5H10O5, obtained from cherry gum by
boiling it with dilute sulphuric acid.

ARABISM
Ar"a*bism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Arabisme.]

Defn: An Arabic idiom peculiarly of language. Stuart.

ARABIST
Ar`a*bist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. Arabiste.]

Defn: One well versed in the Arabic language or literature; also,
formerly, one who followed the Arabic system of surgery.

ARABLE
Ar"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. arable, L. arabilis, fr. arare to plow, akin
to Gr. ear, to plow. See Earable.]

Defn: Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to land
which has been plowed or tilled.

ARABLE
Ar"a*ble, n.

Defn: Arable land; plow land.

ARABY
Ar"a*by, n.

Defn: The country of Arabia. [Archaic & Poetic]

ARACANESE
Ar`a*ca*nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aracan, a province of British Burmah.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Aracan.

ARACARI
A`ra*, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American bird, of the genus Pleroglossius, allied to
the toucans. There are several species.

ARACE
A*race", v. t. Etym: [OE. aracen, arasen, OF. arachier, esracier, F.
arracher, fr. L. exradicare, eradicare. The prefix a- is perh. due to
L. ab. See Eradicate.]

Defn: To tear up by the roots; to draw away. [Obs.] Wyatt.

ARACEOUS
A*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [L. arum a genus of plants, fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an order of plants, of which the genus Arum
is the type.

ARACHNID
A*rach"nid, n.

Defn: An arachnidan. Huxley.

ARACHNIDA
A*rach"ni*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the classes of Arthropoda. See Illustration in Appendix.

Note: They have four pairs of legs, no antennæ nor wings, a pair of
mandibles, and one pair of maxillæ or palpi. The head is usually
consolidated with the thorax. The respiration is either by trancheæ
or by pulmonary sacs, or by both. The class includes three principal
orders: Araneina, or spiders; Arthrogastra, including scorpions,
etc.; and Acarina, or mites and ticks.

ARACHNIDAN
A*rach"ni*dan, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Arachnida.

ARACHNIDIAL
Ar`ach*nid"i*al, a. (Zoöl.)
(a) Of or pertaining to the Arachnida.
(b) Pertaining to the arachnidium.

ARACHNIDIUM
Ar`ach*nid"i*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Arachnida.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The glandular organ in which the material for the web of
spiders is secreted.

ARACHNITIS
Ar`ach*ni"tis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the arachnoid membrane.

ARACHNOID
A*rach"noid, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Resembling a spider's web; cobweblike.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to a thin membrane of the brain and spinal cord,
between the dura mater and pia mater.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Covered with, or composed of, soft, loose hairs or fibers, so
as to resemble a cobweb; cobwebby.

ARACHNOID
A*rach"noid, n.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The arachnoid membrane.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Arachnoidea.

ARACHNOIDAL
Ar`ach*noid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the arachnoid membrane; arachnoid.

ARACHNOIDEA
Ar`ach*noid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Arachnida.

ARACHNOLOGICAL
A*rach`no*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to arachnology.

ARACHNOLOGIST
Ar`ach*nol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in, or studies, arachnology.

ARACHNOLOGY
Ar`ach*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The department of zoölogy which treats of spiders and other
Arachnida.

ARAEOMETER
A`ræ*om"e*ter.

Defn: See Areometer.

ARAEOSTYLE
A*ræ"o*style, a. & n. Etym: [L. araeostylos, Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: See Intercolumniation.

ARAEOSYSTYLE
A*ræ`o*sys"tyle, a. & n. Etym: [Gr. Systyle.] (Arch.)

Defn: See Intercolumniation.

ARAGONESE
Ar`a*go*nese, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aragon, in Spain, or to its inhabitants.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Aragon, in Spain.

ARAGONITE
A*rag"o*nite, n. Etym: [From Aragon, in Spain.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral identical in composition with calcite or carbonate of
lime, but differing from it in its crystalline form and some of its
physical characters.

ARAGUATO
A`ra*gua"to, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American monkey, the ursine howler (Mycetes ursinus).
See Howler, n., 2.

ARAISE
A*raise"", v. t.

Defn: To raise. [Obs.] Shak.

ARAK
Ar"ak, n.

Defn: Same as Arrack.

ARAMAEAN; ARAMEAN
Ar`a*mæan, Ar`a*me"an, a. Etym: [L. Aramaeus, Gr. Aram, i. e.
Highland, a name given to Syria and Mesopotamia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Syrians and Chaldeans, or to their
language; Aramaic.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Aram.

ARAMAIC
Ar`a*ma"ic, a. Etym: [See Aramæan, a.]

Defn: Pertaining to Aram, or to the territory, inhabitants, language,
or literature of Syria and Mesopotamia; Aramæan; -- specifically
applied to the northern branch of the Semitic family of languages,
including Syriac and Chaldee.
 -- n.

Defn: The Aramaic language.

ARAMAISM
Ar`a*ma"ism, n.

Defn: An idiom of the Aramaic.

ARANEIDA; ARANEOIDEA
Ar`a*ne"i*da, Ar`a*ne*oid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Araneina.

ARANEIDAN
Ar`a*ne"i*dan, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Araneina or spiders.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Araneina; a spider.

ARANEIFORM
Ar`a*ne"i*form a. Etym: [L. aranea spider + -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the form of a spider. Kirby.

ARANEINA
A*ra`ne*i"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. aranea spider.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.

Note: They have mandibles, modified a poison faIllustration in
Appendix.

ARANEOSE
A*ra"ne*ose`, a. Etym: [L. araneous.]

Defn: Of the aspect of a spider's web; arachnoid.

ARANEOUS
A*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. araneosus, fr. aranea spider, spider's
web.]

Defn: Cobweblike; extremely thin and delicate, like a cobweb; as, the
araneous membrane of the eye. See Arachnoid. Derham.

ARANGO
A*ran"go, n.; pl. Arangoes. Etym: [The native name.]

Defn: A bead of rough carnelian. Arangoes were formerly imported from
Bombay for use in the African slave trade. McCulloch.

ARAPAIMA
A`ra*pai"ma, n. Etym: [Prob. native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large fresh-water food fish of South America.

ARARA
A*ra"ra, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The palm (or great black) cockatoo, of Australia (Microglossus
aterrimus).

ARAROBA
Ar`a*ro"ba, n. [Tupi.]

1. Goa powder.

2.  A fabaceous tree of Brazil (Centrolobium robustum) having
handsomely striped wood; --called also zebrawood.

ARATION
A*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. aratio, fr. arare to plow.]

Defn: Plowing; tillage. [R.]
Lands are said to be in a state of aration when they are under
tillage. Brande.

ARATORY
Ar"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. aratorius: cf. F. aratoire.]

Defn: Contributing to tillage.

ARAUCARIA
Ar`au*ca"ri*a, n. Etym: [Araucania, a territory south of Chili.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tall conifers of the pine family. The species are
confined mostly to South America and Australia. The wood cells differ
from those of other in having the dots in their lateral surfaces in
two or three rows, and the dots of contiguous rows alternating. The
seeds are edible.

ARAUCARIAN
Ar`au*ca"ri*an, a.

Defn: Relating to, or of the nature of, the Araucaria. The earliest
conifers in geological history were mostly Araucarian. Dana.

ARBALEST; ARBALIST
Ar"ba*lest, Ar"ba*list, n. Etym: [OF. arbaleste, LL. arbalista, for
L. arcuballista; arcus bow + ballista a military engine. See
Ballista.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A crossbow, consisting of a steel bow set in a shaft of wood,
furnished with a string and a trigger, and a mechanical device for
bending the bow. It served to throw arrows, darts, bullets, etc.
[Written also arbalet and arblast.] Fosbroke.

ARBALESTER; ARBALISTER
Ar"ba*lest`er, Ar"ba*list`er, n. Etym: [OF. arblastere, OF.
arbalestier. See Arbalest.]

Defn: A crossbowman. [Obs.] Speed.

ARBITER
Ar"bi*ter, n. Etym: [L. arbiter; ar- (for ad) + the root of betere to
go; hence properly, one who comes up to look on.]

1. A person appointed, or chosen, by parties to determine a
controversy between them.

Note: In modern usage, arbitrator is the technical word.

2. Any person who has the power of judging and determining, or
ordaining, without control; one whose power of deciding and governing
is not limited.
For Jove is arbiter of both to man. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Arbitrator; umpire; director; referee; controller; ruler;
governor.

ARBITER
Ar"bi*ter, v. t.

Defn: To act as arbiter between. [Obs.]

ARBITRABLE
Ar"bi*tra*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. arbitrable, fr. L. arbitrari. See
Arbitrate, v. t.]

Defn: Capable of being decided by arbitration; determinable.
[Archaic] Bp. Hall.

ARBITRAGE
Ar"bi*trage, n. Etym: [F., fr. arbiter to give judgment, L.
arbitrari.]

1. Judgment by an arbiter; authoritative determination. [Archaic]

2. (Com)

Defn: A traffic in bills of exchange (see Arbitration of Exchange);
also, a traffic in stocks which bear differing values at the same
time in different markets.

ARBITRAL
Ar"bi*tral, a. Etym: [L. arbitralis.]

Defn: Of or relating to an arbiter or an arbitration. [R.]

ARBITRAMENT
Ar*bit"ra*ment, n. Etym: [LL. arbitramentum.]

1. Determination; decision; arbitration.
The arbitrament of time. Everett.
Gladly at this moment would MacIvor have put their quarrel to
personal arbitrament. Sir W. Scott.

2. The award of arbitrators. Cowell.

ARBITRARILY
Ar"bi*tra*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In an arbitrary manner; by will only; despotically; absolutely.

ARBITRARINESS
Ar"bi*tra*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being arbitrary; despoticalness; tyranny. Bp.
Hall.

ARBITRARIOUS
Ar`bi*tra"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. arbitrarius. See Arbitrary.]

Defn: Arbitrary; despotic. [Obs.] -- Ar`bi*tra"*ri*ous*ly, adv.
[Obs.]

ARBITRARY
Ar"bi*tra*ry, a. Etym: [L. arbitrarius, fr. arbiter: cf. F.
arbitraire. See Arbiter.]

1. Depending on will or discretion; not governed by any fixed rules;
as, an arbitrary decision; an arbitrary punishment.
It was wholly arbitrary in them to do so. Jer. Taylor.
Rank pretends to fix the value of every one, and is the most
arbitrary of all things. Landor.

2. Exercised according to one's own will or caprice, and therefore
conveying a notion of a tendency to abuse the possession of power.
Arbitrary power is most easily established on the ruins of liberty
abused licentiousness. Washington.

3. Despotic; absolute in power; bound by no law; harsh and
unforbearing; tyrannical; as, an arbitrary prince or government.
Dryden.
Arbitrary constant, Arbitrary function (Math.), a quantity of
function that is introduced into the solution of a problem, and to
which any value or form may at will be given, so that the solution
may be made to meet special requirements.
 -- Arbitrary quantity (Math.), one to which any value can be
assigned at pleasure.

ARBITRATE
Ar"bi*trate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arbitrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arbitrating.] Etym: [L. arbitratus, p. p. of arbitrari to be a hearer
or beholder of something, to make a decision, to give judgment, fr.
arbiter. See Arbiter.]

1. To hear and decide, as arbitrators; as, to choose to arbitrate a
disputed case.

2. To decide, or determine generally. South.
There shall your swords and lances arbitrate The swelling difference
of your settled hate. Shak.

ARBITRATE
Ar"bi*trate, v. i.

1. To decide; to determine. Shak.

2. To act as arbitrator or judge; as, to arbitrate upon several
reports;; to arbitrate in disputes among heighbors; to arbitrate
between parties to a suit.

ARBITRATION
Ar`bi*tra"tion, n. Etym: [F. arbitration, L. arbitratio, fr.
arbitrari.]

Defn: The hearing and determination of a cause between parties in
controversy, by a person or persons chosen by the parties.

Note: This may be done by one person; but it is usual to choose two
or three called arbitrators; or for each party to choose one, and
these to name a third, who is called the umpire. Their determination
is called the award. Bouvier Arbitration bond, a bond which obliges
one to abide by the award of an arbitration.
 -- Arbitration of Exchange, the operation of converting the currency
of one country into that of another, or determining the rate of
exchange between such countries or currencies. An arbitrated rate is
one determined by such arbitration through the medium of one or more
intervening currencies.

ARBITRATOR
Ar"bi*tra`tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. arbitrari: cf. F. arbitrateur.]

1. A person, or one of two or more persons, chosen by parties who
have a controversy, to determine their differences. See Arbitration.

2. One who has the power of deciding or prescribing without control;
a ruler; a governor.
Though Heaven be shut, And Heaven's high Arbitrators sit secure.
Milton.
Masters of their own terms and arbitrators of a peace. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Judge; umpire; referee; arbiter. See Judge.

ARBITRATRIX
Ar"bi*tra`trix, n. Etym: [L., fem. of arbitrator.]

Defn: A female who arbitrates or judges.

ARBITRESS
Ar"bi*tress, n. Etym: [From Arbiter.]

Defn: A female arbiter; an arbitratrix. Milton.

ARBLAST
Ar"blast, n.

Defn: A crossbow. See Arbalest.

ARBOR
Ar"bor, n. Etym: [OE. herber, herbere, properly a garden of herbs, F.
herbier, fr. L. herbarium. See Herb, and cf. Herbarium.]

Defn: A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines,
branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower. Sir P.
Sidney.

ARBOR
Ar"bor, n. [Written also arbour.] Etym: [L., a tree, a beam.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A tree, as distinguished from a shrub.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. arbre.] (Mech.)
(a) An axle or spindle of a wheel or opinion.
(b) A mandrel in lathe turning. Knight. Arbor Day, a day appointed
for planting trees and shrubs. [U.S.]

ARBORARY
Ar"bo*ra*ry, a. Etym: [L. arborarius, fr. arbor tree.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to trees; arboreal.

ARBORATOR
Ar"bo*ra`tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. arbor tree.]

Defn: One who plants or who prunes trees. [Obs.] Evelyn.

ARBOR DIANAE
Ar"bor Di*a"næ. Etym: [L., the tree of Diana, or silver.] (Chem.)

Defn: A precipitation of silver, in a beautiful arborescent form.

ARBOREAL
Ar*bo"re*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a tree, or to trees; of nature of trees.
Cowley.

2. Attached to, found in or upon, or frequenting, woods or trees; as,
arboreal animals.
Woodpeckers are eminently arboreal. Darwin.

ARBORED
Ar"bored, a.

Defn: Furnished with an arbor; lined with trees. "An arboreal walk."
Pollok.

ARBOREOUS
Ar*bo"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. arboreous, fr. arbor tree.]

1. Having the form, constitution, or habits, of a proper tree, in
distinction from a shrub. Loudon.

2. Pertaining to, or growing on, trees; as, arboreous moss. Quincy.

ARBORESCENCE
Ar`bo*res"cence, n.

Defn: The state of being arborescent; the resemblance to a tree in
minerals, or crystallizations, or groups of crystals in that form;
as, the arborescence produced by precipitating silver.

ARBORESCENT
Ar`bo*res"cent, a. Etym: [L. arborescens, p. pr. of arborescere to
become a tree, fr. arbor tree.]

Defn: Resembling a tree; becoming woody in stalk; dendritic; having
crystallizations disposed like the branches and twigs of a tree.
"Arborescent hollyhocks." Evelyn.

ARBORET
Ar"bo*ret, n. Etym: [OF. arboret, dim. of arbre tree, L. arbor]

Defn: A small tree or shrub. [Obs.] Spenser.
Among thick-woven arborets, and flowers Imbordered on each bank.
Milton.

ARBORETUM
Ar`bo*re"tum, n.; pl. Arboreta. Etym: [L., a place grown with trees.]

Defn: A place in which a collection of rare trees and shrubs is
cultivated for scientific or educational purposes.

ARBORICAL
Ar*bor"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to trees. [Obs.]

ARBORICOLE
Ar*bor"i*cole, a. Etym: [L. arbor + colere to inhabit.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Tree-inhabiting; -- said of certain birds.

ARBORICULTURAL
Ar`bor*i*cul"tur*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to arboriculture. Loudon.

ARBORICULTURE
Ar`bor*i*cul"ture, n. Etym: [L. arbor tree + cultura. See Culture.]

Defn: The cultivation of trees and shrubs, chiefly for timber or for
ornamental purposes.

ARBORICULTURIST
Ar`bor*i*cul"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One who cultivates trees.

ARBORIFORM
Ar*bor"i*form, a.

Defn: Treelike in shape.

ARBORIST
Ar"bor*ist, n. Etym: [F. arboriste, fr. L. arbor tree.]

Defn: One who makes trees his study, or who is versed in the
knowledge of trees. Howell.

ARBORIZATION
Ar`bor*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. arborisation, fr. L. arbor tree.]

Defn: The appearance or figure of a tree or plant, as in minerals or
fossils; a dendrite.

ARBORIZED
Ar"bor*ized, a.

Defn: Having a treelike appearance. "An arborized or moss agate."
Wright.

ARBOROUS
Ar"bor*ous, a.

Defn: Formed by trees. [Obs.]
From under shady, arborous roof. Milton.

ARBOR VINE
Ar"bor vine`.

Defn: A species of bindweed.

ARBOR VITAE
Ar"bor vi"tæ. Etym: [L., tree of life.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen tree of the cypress tribe, genus Thuja. The
American species is the T. occidentalis.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The treelike disposition of the gray and white nerve tissues in
the cerebellum, as seen in a vertical section.

ARBUSCLE
Ar"bus*cle, n. Etym: [L. arbuscula small tree, shrub, dim. of arbor
tree.]

Defn: A dwarf tree, one in size between a shrub and a tree; a
treelike shrub. Bradley.

ARBUSCULAR
Ar*bus"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a dwarf tree; shrublike. Da Costa.

ARBUSTIVE
Ar*bus"tive, a. Etym: [L. arbustivus, fr. arbustum place where trees
are planted.]

Defn: Containing copses of trees or shrubs; covered with shrubs.
Bartram.

ARBUTUS; ARBUTE
Ar"bu*tus, Ar"bute, n. Etym: [L. arbutus, akin to arbor tree.]

Defn: The strawberry tree, a genus of evergreen shrubs, of the Heath
family. It has a berry externally resembling the strawberry; the
arbute tree. Trailing arbutus (Bot.), a creeping or trailing plant of
the Heath family (Epigæa repens), having white or usually rose-
colored flowers with a delicate fragrance, growing in small axillary
clusters, and appearing early in the spring; in New England known as
mayflower; -- called also ground laurel. Gray.

ARC
Arc, n. Etym: [F. arc, L. arcus bow, arc. See Arch, n.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of an
ellipse.

2. A curvature in the shape of a circular arc or an arch; as, the
colored arc (the rainbow); the arc of Hadley's quadrant.

3. An arch. [Obs.]
Statues and trophies, and triumphal arcs. Milton.

4. The apparent arc described, above or below the horizon, by the sun
or other celestial body. The diurnal arc is described during the
daytime, the nocturnal arc during the night. Electric arc, Voltaic
arc. See under Voltaic.

ARCADE
Ar*cade", n. Etym: [F. arcade, Sp. arcada, LL. arcata, fr. L. arcus
bow, arch.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) A series of arches with the columns or piers which support them,
the spandrels above, and other necessary appurtenances; sometimes
open, serving as an entrance or to give light; sometimes closed at
the back (as in the cut) and forming a decorative feature.
(b) A long, arched building or gallery.

2. An arched or covered passageway or avenue.

ARCADED
Ar*cad"ed, a.

Defn: Furnished with an arcade.

ARCADIA
Ar*ca"di*a, n. Etym: [L. Arcadia, Gr.

1. A mountainous and picturesque district of Greece, in the heart of
the Peloponnesus, whose people were distinguished for contentment and
rural happiness.

2. Fig.: Any region or scene of simple pleasure and untroubled quiet.
Where the cow is, there is Arcadia. J. Burroughs.

ARCADIAN; ARCADIC
Ar*ca"di*an, Ar*ca"dic, a. Etym: [L. Arcadius, Arcadicus, fr.
Arcadia: cf. F. Arcadien, Arcadique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Arcadia; pastoral; ideally rural; as,
Arcadian simplicity or scenery.

ARCANE
Ar*cane", a. Etym: [L. arcanus.]

Defn: Hidden; secret. [Obs.] "The arcane part of divine wisdom."
Berkeley.

ARCANUM
Ar*ca"num, n.; pl. Arcana. Etym: [L., fr. arcanus closed, secret, fr.
arca chest, box, fr. arcere to inclose. See Ark.]

1. A secret; a mystery; -- generally used in the plural.
Inquiries into the arcana of the Godhead. Warburton.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A secret remedy; an elixir. Dunglison.

ARCBOUTANT
Arc`*bou`tant", n. Etym: [F.] (Arch.)

Defn: A flying buttress. Gwilt.

ARCH
Arch, n. Etym: [F. arche, fr. LL. arca, for arcus. See Arc.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: Any part of a curved line.

2. (Arch.)
(a) Usually a curved member made up of separate wedge-shaped solids,
with the joints between them disposed in the direction of the radii
of the curve; used to support the wall or other weight above an
opening. In this sense arches are segmental, round (i. e.,
semicircular), or pointed.
(b) A flat arch is a member constructed of stones cut into wedges or
other shapes so as to support each other without rising in a curve.

Note: Scientifically considered, the arch is a means of spanning an
opening by resolving vertical pressure into horizontal or diagonal
thrust.

3. Any place covered by an arch; an archway; as, to pass into the
arch of a bridge.

4. Any curvature in the form of an arch; as, the arch of the aorta.
"Colors of the showery arch." Milton. Triumphal arch, a monumental
structure resembling an arched gateway, with one or more passages,
erected to commemorate a triumph.

ARCH
Arch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arched; p. pr. & vb. n. Arching.]

1. To cover with an arch or arches.

2. To form or bend into the shape of an arch.
The horse arched his neck. Charlesworth.

ARCH
Arch, v. i.

Defn: To form into an arch; to curve.

ARCH-
Arch- (ärch-, except in archangel and one or two other words). Etym:
[L. arch-, Gr. Arch-.]

Defn: A prefix signifying chief, as in archbuilder, archfiend.

ARCH
Arch, a. Etym: [See Arch-, pref.]

1. Chief; eminent; greatest; principal.
The most arch act of piteous massacre. Shak.

2. Cunning or sly; sportively mischievous; roguish; as, an arch look,
word, lad.
[He] spoke his request with so arch a leer. Tatler.

ARCH
Arch, n. Etym: [See Arch-, pref.]

Defn: A chief. [Obs.]
My worthy arch and patron comes to-night. Shak.

ARCH
*arch. Etym: [Gr. Arch, a.]

Defn: A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler).

-ARCH
-arch. [Gr. 'archo`s chief, commander, 'a`rchein to rule. See Arch,
a.]

Defn: A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler).

ARCHAEAN
Ar*chæ"an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Ancient; pertaining to the earliest period in geological
history.

ARCHAEAN
Ar*chæ"an, n. (Geol.)

Defn: The earliest period in geological period, extending up to the
Lower Silurian. It includes an Azoic age, previous to the appearance
of life, and an Eozoic age, including the earliest forms of life.

Note: This is equivalent to the formerly accepted term Azoic, and to
the Eozoic of Dawson.

ARCHAEOGRAPHY
Ar`chæ*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of, or a treatise on, antiquity or antiquities.

ARCHAEOLITHIC
Ar`chæ*o*lith"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Archæol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the earliest Stone age; -- applied to a
prehistoric period preceding the Paleolithic age.

ARCHAEOLOGIAN
Ar`chæ*o*lo"gi*an, n.

Defn: An archæologist.

ARCHAEOLOGIC; ARCHAEOLOGICAL
Ar`chæ*o*log"ic, Ar`chæ*o*log"ic*al,

Defn: Relating to archæology, or antiquities; as, archæological
researches.
 -- Ar`*chæ*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

ARCHAEOLOGIST
Ar`chæ*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in archæology; an antiquary. Wright.

ARCHAEOLOGY
Ar`chæ*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science or study of antiquities, esp. prehistoric
antiquities, such as the remains of buildings or monuments of an
early epoch, inscriptions, implements, and other relics, written
manuscripts, etc.

ARCHAEOPTERYX
Ar`chæ*op"te*ryx, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil bird, of the Jurassic period, remarkable for having a
long tapering tail of many vertebræ with feathers along each side,
and jaws armed with teeth, with other reptilian characteristics.

ARCHAEOSTOMATOUS
Ar`chæ*o*stom"a*tous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Applied to a gastrula when the blastorope does not entirely up.

ARCHAEOZOIC
Ar`chæ*o*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like or belonging to the earliest forms of animal life.

ARCHAIC
Ar*cha"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or characterized by antiquity or archaism; antiquated;
obsolescent.

ARCHAICAL
Ar*cha"ic*al, a.

Defn: Archaic. [R.] -- Ar*cha"ic*al*ly, adv.

ARCHAISM
Ar"cha*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. archaïsme. See Arch, a.]

1. An ancient, antiquated, or old-fashioned, word, expression, or
idiom; a word or form of speech no longer in common use.

2. Antiquity of style or use; obsoleteness.
A select vocabulary corresponding (in point of archaism and
remoteness from ordinary use) to our Scriptural vocabulary. De
Quincey.

ARCHAIST
Ar"cha*ist, n.

1. Am antiquary.

2. One who uses archaisms.

ARCHAISTIC
Ar`cha*is"tic, a.

Defn: Like, or imitative of, anything archaic; pertaining to an
archaism.

ARCHAIZE
Ar"cha*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Archaized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Archaizing.] Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To make appear archaic or antique. Mahaffy.

ARCHANGEL
Arch`an"gel, n. Etym: [L. archangelus, Gr. archangel, F. archange.
See Arch-, pref., and Angel.]

1. A chief angel; one high in the celestial hierarchy. Milton.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A term applied to several different species of plants (Angelica
archangelica, Lamium album, etc.).

ARCHANGELIC
Arch`an*gel"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. archangélique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to archangels; of the nature of, or
resembling, an archangel. Milton.

ARCHBISHOP
Arch`bish"op, n. Etym: [AS. arcebisceop, arcebiscop, L.
archiepiscopus, fr. Gr. Bishop.]

Defn: A chief bishop; a church dignitary of the first class (often
called a metropolitan or primate) who superintends the conduct of the
suffragan bishops in his province, and also exercises episcopal
authority in his own diocese.

ARCHBISHOPRIC
Arch`bish"op*ric, n. Etym: [AS. arcebiscoprice. See -ric.]

Defn: The jurisdiction or office of an archbishop; the see or
province over which archbishop exercises archiepiscopal authority.

ARCH BRICK
Arch" brick`.

Defn: A wedge-shaped brick used in the building of an arch.

ARCHBUTLER
Arch`but"ler, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + butler.]

Defn: A chief butler; -- an officer of the German empire.

ARCHCHAMBERLAIN
Arch`cham"ber*lain, n. Etym: [Cf. G. erzkämmerer. See Arch-, pref.]

Defn: A chief chamberlain; -- an officer of the old German empire,
whose office was similar to that of the great chamberlain in England.

ARCHCHANCELLOR
Arch`chan"cel*lor, n. Etym: [Cf. Ger. erzkanzler. See Arch-, pref.]

Defn: A chief chancellor; -- an officer in the old German empire, who
presided over the secretaries of the court.

ARCHCHEMIC
Arch`chem"ic, a.

Defn: Of supreme chemical powers. [R.] "The archchemic sun." Milton.

ARCHDEACON
Arch`dea"con, n. Etym: [AS. arcediacon, archidiacon, L.
archidiaconus, fr. Gr. Arch-, pref., and Deacon.]

Defn: In England, an ecclesiastical dignitary, next in rank below a
bishop, whom he assists, and by whom he is appointed, though with
independent authority. Blackstone.

ARCHDEACONRY
Arch`dea"con*ry, n.

Defn: The district, office, or residence of an archdeacon. See
Benefice.
Every diocese is divided into archdeaconries. Blackstone.

ARCHDEACONSHIP
Arch`dea"con*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an archdeacon.

ARCHDIOCESE
Arch`di"o*cese, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + diocese.]

Defn: The diocese of an archbishop.

ARCHDUCAL
Arch`du"cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archduke or archduchy.

ARCHDUCHESS
Arch`duch"ess, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + duchess.]

Defn: The consort of an archduke; also, a princess of the imperial
family of Austria. See Archduke.

ARCHDUCHY
Arch`duch"y, n.

Defn: The territory of an archduke or archduchess. Ash.

ARCHDUKE
Arch`duke", n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + duke.]

Defn: A prince of the imperial family of Austria.

Note: Formerly this title was assumed by the rulers of Lorraine,
Brabant, Austria, etc. It is now appropriated to the descendants of
the imperial family of Austria through the make line, all such male
descendants being styled archduke, and all such female descendants
archduchesses.

ARCHDUKEDOM
Arch`duke"dom, n.

Defn: An archduchy.

ARCHEBIOSIS
Ar`che*bi*o"sis, n. Etym: [Pref. arche- + Gr.

Defn: To origination of living matter from non-living. See
Abiogenesis. Bastian.

ARCHED
Arched, a.

Defn: Made with an arch or curve; covered with an arch; as, an arched
door.

ARCHEGONIAL
Ar`che*go"ni*al, a.

Defn: Relating to the archegonium.

ARCHEGONIUM
Ar`che*go"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The pistillidium or female organ in the higher cryptogamic
plants, corresponding to the pistil in flowering plants.

ARCHEGONY
Ar*cheg"o*ny, n. Etym: [See Archegonium.] (Biol.)

Defn: Spontaneous generation; abiogenesis.

ARCHELOGY
Ar*chel"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of, or a treatise on, first principles. Fleming.

ARCHENCEPHALA
Ar`chen*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. pref. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The division that includes man alone. R. Owen.

ARCHENEMY
Arch`en"e*my, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + enemy.]

Defn: A principal enemy. Specifically, Satan, the grand adversary of
mankind. Milton.

ARCHENTERIC
Arch`en*ter"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to the archenteron; as, archenteric invagination.

ARCHENTERON
Arch`en"ter*on, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The primitive enteron or undifferentiated digestive sac of a
gastrula or other embryo. See Illust. under Invagination.

ARCHEOLOGY; ARCHEOLOGICAL
Ar`che*ol"o*gy, n., Ar`che*o*log`ic*al, a.

Defn: Same as Archæology, etc.

ARCHER
Arch"er, n. Etym: [archier, F. archer, LL. arcarius, fr. L. arcus
bow. See Arc, Arch, n.]

Defn: A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow.

ARCHERESS
Arch"er*ess, n.

Defn: A female archer. Markham.

ARCHER FISH
Arch"er fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fish (Toxotes jaculator), of the East Indies; -- so
called from its ejecting drops of water from its mouth at its prey.
The name is also applied to Chætodon rostratus.

ARCHERSHIP
Arch"er*ship, n.

Defn: The art or skill of an archer.

ARCHERY
Arch"er*y, n. Etym: [OE. archerie.]

1. The use of the bow and arrows in battle, hunting, etc.; the art,
practice, or skill of shooting with a bow and arrows.

2. Archers, or bowmen, collectively.
Let all our archery fall off In wings of shot a-both sides of the
van. Webster (1607).

ARCHES
Arch"es,

Defn: pl. of Arch, n. Court of arches, or Arches Court (Eng. Law),
the court of appeal of the Archbishop of Canterbury, whereof the
judge, who sits as deputy to the archbishop, is called the Dean of
the Arches, because he anciently held his court in the church of St.
Mary-le-Bow (de arcubus). It is now held in Westminster. Mozley & W.

ARCHETYPAL
Ar"che*ty`pal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archetype; consisting a model (real or
ideal) or pattern; original. "One archetypal mind." Gudworth.

Note: Among Platonists, the archetypal world is the world as it
existed as an idea of God before the creation.

ARCHETYPALLY
Ar"che*ty`pal*ly, adv.

Defn: With reference to the archetype; originally. "Parts
archetypally distinct." Dana.

ARCHETYPE
Ar"che*type, n. Etym: [L. archetypum, Gr. archétype. See Arch-,
pref.]

1. The original pattern or model of a work; or the model from which a
thing is made or formed.
The House of Commons, the archetype of all the representative
assemblies which now meet. Macaulay.
Types and shadows of that glorious archetype that was to come into
the world. South.

2. (Coinage)

Defn: The standard weight or coin by which others are adjusted.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: The plan or fundamental structure on which a natural group of
animals or plants or their systems of organs are assumed to have been
constructed; as, the vertebrate archetype.

ARCHETYPICAL
Ar`che*typ"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to an archetype; archetypal.

ARCHEUS
Ar*che"us, n. Etym: [LL. arch, Gr. Archi-, pref.]

Defn: The vital principle or force which (according to the
Paracelsians) presides over the growth and continuation of living
beings; the anima mundi or plastic power of the old philosophers.
[Obs.] Johnson.

ARCHI-
Ar"chi-. Etym: [L., archi-, Gr. arce-, erce-, OHG. erzi-.]

Defn: A prefix signifying chief, arch; as, architect, archiepiscopal.
In Biol. and Anat. it usually means primitive, original, ancestral;
as, archipterygium, the primitive fin or wing.

ARCHIANNELIDA
Ar`chi*an*nel"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL.; pref. archi- + annelida.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Annelida remarkable for having no external segments
or distinct ventral nerve ganglions.

ARCHIATER
Ar"chi*a`ter, n. Etym: [L. archiatrus, Gr.

Defn: Chief physician; -- a term applied, on the continent of Europe,
to the first or body physician of princes and to the first physician
of some cities. P. Cyc.

ARCHIBALD WHEEL
Ar"chi*bald wheel.

Defn: A metal-hubbed wheel of great strength and elasticity, esp.
adapted for artillery carriages and motor cars.

ARCHIBLASTULA
Ar`chi*blas"tu*la, n. Etym: [Pref. archi + blastula.] (Biol.)

Defn: A hollow blastula, supposed to be the primitive form; a c

ARCHICAL
Ar"chi*cal, a. Etym: [Gr. Arch-, pref.]

Defn: Chief; primary; primordial. [Obs.] Cudworth.

ARCHIDIACONAL
Ar`chi*di*ac"o*nal, a. Etym: [L. archidiaconus, Gr. archdeacon.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archdeacon.
This offense is liable to be censured in an archidiaconal visitation.
Johnson.

ARCHIEPISCOPACY
Ar`chi*e*pis"co*pa*cy, n. Etym: [Pref. archi- + episcopacy.]

1. That form of episcopacy in which the chief power is in the hands
of archbishops.

2. The state or dignity of an archbishop.

ARCHIEPISCOPAL
Ar`chi*e*pis"co*pal, a. Etym: [Pref. archi- + episcopal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archbishop; as, Canterbury is an
archiepiscopal see.

ARCHIEPISCOPALITY
Ar`chi*e*pis`co*pal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The station or dignity of an archbishop; archiepiscopacy.
Fuller.

ARCHIEPISCOPATE
Ar`chi*e*pis"co*pate, n. Etym: [Pref. archi- + episcopate.]

Defn: The office of an archbishop; an archbishopric.

ARCHIEREY
Ar*chi"e*rey, n. Etym: [Russ. archieréi, fr. Gr. arch-) + * priest.]

Defn: The higher order of clergy in Russia, including metropolitans,
archbishops, and bishops. Pinkerton.

ARCHIL
Ar"chil, n. Etym: [OF. orchel, orcheil, It. orcella, oricello, or
OSp. orchillo. Cf. Orchil.]

1. A violet dye obtained from several species of lichen (Roccella
tinctoria, etc.), which grow on maritime rocks in the Canary and Cape
Verd Islands, etc. Tomlinson.

2. The plant from which the dye is obtained. [Written also orchal and
orchil.]

ARCHILOCHIAN
Ar`chi*lo"chi*an, a. Etym: [L. Archilochius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the satiric Greek poet Archilochus; as,
Archilochian meter.

ARCHIMAGE; ARCHIMAGUS
Ar"chi*mage, Ar`chi*ma"gus, n. Etym: [NL.; pref. archi- + L. magus,
Gr.

1. The high priest of the Persian Magi, or worshipers of fire.

2. A great magician, wizard, or enchanter. Spenser.

ARCHIMANDRITE
Ar`chi*man"drite, n. Etym: [L. archimandrita, LGr. arch-) + (Gr.
Church)
(a) A chief of a monastery, corresponding to abbot in the Roman
Catholic church.
(b) A superintendent of several monasteries, corresponding to
superior abbot, or father provincial, in the Roman Catholic church.

ARCHIMEDEAN
Ar`chi*me*de"an, a. Etym: [L. Archimedeus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Archimedes, a celebrated Greek philosopher;
constructed on the principle of Archimedes' screw; as, Archimedean
drill, propeller, etc. Archimedean screw, or Archimedes' screw, an
instrument, said to have been invented by Archimedes, for raising
water, formed by winding a flexible tube round a cylinder in the form
of a screw. When the screw is placed in an inclined position, and the
lower end immersed in water, by causing the screw to revolve, the
water is raised to the upper end. Francis.

ARCHIMEDES
Ar`chi*me"des, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of Bryzoa characteristic of the
subcarboniferous rocks. Its form is that of a screw.

ARCHING
Arch"ing, n.

1. The arched part of a structure.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Hogging; -- opposed to sagging.

ARCHIPELAGIC
Ar`chi*pe*lag"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an archipelago.

ARCHIPELAGO
Ar`chi*pel"a*go, n.; pl. -goes or -gos. Etym: [It. arcipelago,
properly, chief sea; Gr. pref Plague.]

1. The Grecian Archipelago, or Ægean Sea, separating Greece from Asia
Minor. It is studded with a vast number of small islands.

2. Hence: Any sea or broad sheet of water interspersed with many
islands or with a group of islands.

ARCHIPTERYGIUM
Ar*chip`te*ryg"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. pref. arch-) + (Anat.)

Defn: The primitive form of fin, like that of Ceratodus.

ARCHITECT
Ar"chi*tect, n. Etym: [L. architectus, architecton, Gr. archi-) +
architecte, It. architetto. See Technical.]

1. A person skilled in the art of building; one who understands
architecture, or makes it his occupation to form plans and designs of
buildings, and to superintend the artificers employed.

2. A contriver, designer, or maker.
The architects of their own happiness. Milton.
A French woman is a perfect architect in dress. Coldsmith.

ARCHITECTIVE
Ar`chi*tec"tive, a.

Defn: Used in building; proper for building. Derham.

ARCHITECTONIC; ARCHITECTONICAL
Ar`chi*tec*ton"ic, Ar`chi*tec*ton"ic*al, a. Etym: [L.
architectonicus, Gr. Architect.]

1. Pertaining to a master builder, or to architecture; evincing skill
in designing or construction; constructive. "Architectonic wisdom."
Boyle.
These architectonic functions which we had hitherto thought belonged.
J. C. Shairp.

2. Relating to the systemizing of knowledge.

ARCHITECTONIC
Ar`chi*tec*ton"ic, n. Etym: [Cf. F. architectonique.]

1. The science of architecture.

2. The act of arranging knowledge into a system.

ARCHITECTONICS
Ar`chi*tec*ton"ics, n.

Defn: The science of architecture.

ARCHITECTOR
Ar"chi*tec`tor, n.

Defn: An architect. [Obs.] North.

ARCHITECTRESS
Ar"chi*tec`tress, n.

Defn: A female architect.

ARCHITECTURAL
Ar`chi*tec"tur*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the art of building; conformed to the rules
of architecture.
 -- Ar`chi*tec"tur*al*ly, adv.

ARCHITECTURE
Ar"chi*tec`ture, n. Etym: [L. architectura, fr. architectus: cf. F.
architecture. See Architect.]

1. The art or science of building; especially, the art of building
houses, churches, bridges, and other structures, for the purposes of
civil life; -- often called civil architecture.
Many other architectures besides Gothic. Ruskin.

3. Construction, in a more general sense; frame or structure;
workmanship.
The architecture of grasses, plants, and trees. Tyndall.
The formation of the first earth being a piece of divine
architecture. Burnet.
Military architecture, the art of fortifications.
 -- Naval architecture, the art of building ships.

ARCHITEUTHIS
Ar`chi*teu"this, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. pref. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of gigantic cephalopods, allied to the squids, found
esp. in the North Atlantic and about New Zealand.

ARCHITRAVE
Ar"chi*trave, n. Etym: [F. architrave, fr. It. architrave; pref.
archi- + trave beam, L. trabs.] (Arch.)
(a) The lower division of an entablature, or that part which rests
immediately on the column, esp. in classical architecture. See
Column.
(b) The group of moldings, or other architectural member, above and
on both sides of a door or other opening, especially if square in
form.

ARCHITRAVED
Ar"chi*traved, a.

Defn: Furnished with an architrave. Cowper.

ARCHIVAL
Ar"chi*val, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or contained in, archives or records. Tooke.

ARCHIVE
Ar"chive, n.; pl. Archives. Etym: [F. archives, pl., L. archivum,
archium, fr. Gr. Archi-, pref.]

1. pl.

Defn: The place in which public records or historic documents are
kept.
Our words . . . . become records in God's court, and are laid up in
his archives as witnesses. Gov. of Tongue.

2. pl.

Defn: Public records or documents preserved as evidence of facts; as,
the archives of a country or family. [Rarely used in sing.]
Some rotten archive, rummaged out of some seldom explored press.
Lamb.

Syn.
 -- Registers; records; chronicles.

ARCHIVIST
Ar"chi*vist, n. Etym: [F. archiviste.]

Defn: A keeper of archives or records. [R.]

ARCHIVOLT
Ar"chi*volt, n. Etym: [F. archivolte, fr. It. archivolto; pref.
archi- + volto vault, arch. See Vault.] (Arch.)
(a) The architectural member surrounding the curved opening of an
arch, corresponding to the architrave in the case of a square
opening.
(b) More commonly, the molding or other ornaments with which the wall
face of the voussoirs of an arch is charged.

ARCHLUTE; ARCHILUTE
Arch"lute, Arch"i*lute, n. Etym: [Cf. F. archiluth, It. arciliuto.]
(Mus.)

Defn: A large theorbo, or double-necked lute, formerly in use, having
the bass strings doubled with an octave, and the higher strings with
a unison.

ARCHLY
Arch"ly, adv.

Defn: In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness;
slyly; waggishly.
Archly the maiden smiled. Longfellow.

ARCHMARSHAL
Arch`mar"shal, n. Etym: [G. erzmarschall. See Arch-, pref.]

Defn: The grand marshal of the old German empire, a dignity that to
the Elector of Saxony.

ARCHNESS
Arch"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being arch; cleverness; sly humor free from
malice; waggishness. Goldsmith.

ARCHON
Ar"chon, n. Etym: [L. archon, Gr. (Antiq.)

Defn: One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, by
preëminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates.
 -- Ar*chon"tic, a.

ARCHONSHIP
Ar"chon*ship, n.

Defn: The office of an archon. Mitford.

ARCHONTATE
Ar"chon*tate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. archontat.]

Defn: An archon's term of office. Gibbon.

ARCHONTS
Ar"chonts, n. pl. Etym: [Gr. p. pr. See Archon.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The group including man alone.

ARCHOPLASM
Ar"cho*plasm, n. [See Archon; Plasma.] (Biol.)

Defn: The substance from which attraction spheres develop in mitotic
cell division, and of which they consist.

ARCHPRELATE
Arch`prel"ate, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + prelate.]

Defn: An archbishop or other chief prelate.

ARCHPRESBYTER
Arch`pres"by*ter, n.

Defn: Same as Archpriest.

ARCHPRESBYTERY
Arch`pres"by*ter*y, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + presbutery.]

Defn: The absolute dominion of presbytery. Milton.

ARCHPRIEST
Arch`priest", n.

Defn: A chief priest; also, a kind of vicar, or a rural dean.

ARCHPRIMATE
Arch`pri"mate, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + primate.]

Defn: The chief primate. Milton.

ARCH STONE
Arch" stone`.

Defn: A wedge-shaped stone used in an arch; a voussoir.

ARCHTRAITOR
Arch`trai"tor, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + traitor.]

Defn: A chief or transcendent traitor. I. Watts.

ARCHTREASURER
Arch`treas"ur*er, n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + treasurer.]

Defn: A chief treasurer. Specifically, the great treasurer of the
German empire.

ARCHWAY
Arch"way, n.

Defn: A way or passage under an arch.

ARCHWIFE
Arch`wife", n. Etym: [Pref. arch- + wife.]

Defn: A big, masculine wife. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARCHWISE
Arch"wise, adv.

Defn: Arch-shaped.

ARCHY
Arch"y, a.

Defn: Arched; as, archy brows.

ARCHY
*ar"chy. Etym: [Gr. Arch-, pref.]

Defn: A suffix properly meaning a rule, ruling, as in monarchy, the
rule of one only. Cf. -arch.

ARCIFORM
Ar"ci*form, a. Etym: [L. arcus bow + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of an arch; curved.

ARC LIGHT
Arc light. (Elec.)

Defn: The light of an arc lamp.

ARCOGRAPH
Arc"o*graph, n. Etym: [L. arcus (E. arc) + -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for drawing a circular arc without the use of a
central point; a cyclograph.

ARCTATION
Arc*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. arctus shut in, narrow, p. p. of arcere to
shut in: cf. F. arctation.] (Med.)

Defn: Constriction or contraction of some natural passage, as in
constipation from inflammation.

ARCTIC
Arc"tic, a. Etym: [OE. artik, OF. artique, F. arctique, L. arcticus,
fr. Gr. ursus bear, Skr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellation
called the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle,
region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature.

Note: The arctic circle is a lesser circle, parallel to the equator,
23º 28' from the north pole. This and the antarctic circle are called
the polar circles, and between these and the poles lie the frigid
zones. See Zone.

ARCTIC
Arc"tic, n.

1. The arctic circle.

2. A warm waterproof overshoe. [U.S.]

ARCTISCA
Arc*tis"ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Arachnida. See Illust. in Appendix.

ARCTOGEAL
Arc`to*ge"al, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to arctic lands; as, the arctogeal fauna.

ARCTOIDEA
Arc*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of the Carnivora, that includes the bears, weasels,
etc.

ARCTURUS
Arc*tu"rus, n. Etym: [L. Arcturus, Gr. Arctic.] (Anat.)

Defn: A fixed star of the first magnitude in the constellation
Boötes.

Note: Arcturus has sometimes been incorrectly used as the name of the
constellation, or even of Ursa Major.
Canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons [Rev. Ver.: "the Bear with
her train"]. Job xxxviii. 32.

ARCUAL
Arc"u*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an arc. Arcual measure of an angle (Math.),
that in which the unit angle has its measuring arc equal to the
radius of the circle.

ARCUATE; ARCUATED
Arc"u*ate, Arc"u*a`ted(#), a. Etym: [L. arcuatus, p. p. of arcuare to
shape like a bow, fr. arcus. See Arc.]

Defn: Bent or curved in the form of a bow. "Arcuate stalks." Gray.

ARCUATELY
Arc"u*ate*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form of a bow.

ARCUATION
Arc`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. arcuatio.]

1. The act of bending or curving; incurvation; the state of being
bent; crookedness. Coxe.

2. (Hort.)

Defn: A mode of propagating trees by bending branches to the ground,
and covering the small shoots with earth; layering. Chambers.

ARCUBALIST
Ar"cu*ba*list, n. Etym: [See Arbalist.]

Defn: A crossbow. Fosbroke.

ARCUBALISTER
Ar`cu*bal"ist*er, n. Etym: [L. arcuballistarius. Cf. Arbalister.]

Defn: A crossbowman; one who used the arcubalist. Camden.

ARCUBUS
Ar"cu*bus, n.

Defn: See Arquebus. [Obs.]

-ARD; -ART
-ard, -art.

Defn: The termination of many English words; as, coward, reynard,
drunkard, mostly from the French, in which language this ending is of
German origin, being orig. the same word as English hard. It usually
has the sense of one who has to a high or excessive degree the
quality expressed by the root; as, braggart, sluggard.

ARDASSINE
Ar*das"sine, n. Etym: [F. (cf. Sp. ardacina), fr. ardasse a kind of
silk thread, fr. Ar. & Per. ardan a kind of raw silk.]

Defn: A very fine sort of Persian silk.

ARDENCY
Ar"den*cy, n.

1. Heat. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.

2. Warmth of passion or affection; ardor; vehemence; eagerness; as,
the ardency of love or zeal.

ARDENT
Ar"dent, a. Etym: [OE. ardaunt, F. ardant, p. pr. of arder to burn,
fr. L. ardere.]

1. Hot or burning; causing a sensation of burning; fiery; as, ardent
spirits, that is, distilled liquors; an ardent fever.

2. Having the appearance or quality of fire; fierce; glowing;
shining; as, ardent eyes. Dryden.

3. Warm, applied to the passions and affections; passionate; fervent;
zealous; vehement; as, ardent love, feelings, zeal, hope, temper.
An ardent and impetuous race. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Burning; hot; fiery; glowing; intense; fierce; vehement; eager;
zealous; keen; fervid; fervent; passionate; affectionate.

ARDENTLY
Ar"dent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an ardent manner; eagerly; with warmth; affectionately;
passionately.

ARDENTNESS
Ar"dent*ness, n.

Defn: Ardency. [R.]

ARDOIS SYSTEM
Ar`dois" sys"tem. (Naut.)

Defn: A widely used system of electric night signals in which a
series of double electric lamps (white and red) is arranged
vertically on a mast, and operated from a keyboard below.

ARDOR
Ar"dor, n. Etym: [L. ardor, fr. ardere to burn: cf. OF. ardor, ardur,
F. ardeur.] [Spelt also ardour.]

1. Heat, in a literal sense; as, the ardor of the sun's rays.

2. Warmth or heat of passion or affection; eagerness; zeal; as, he
pursues study with ardor; the fought with ardor; martial ardor.

3. pl.

Defn: Bright and effulgent spirits; seraphim. [Thus used by Milton.]

Syn.
 -- Fervor; warmth; eagerness. See Fervor.

ARDUOUS
Ar"du*ous, a. Etym: [L. arduus steep, high; akin to Ir. ard high,
height.]

1. Steep and lofty, in a literal sense; hard to climb.
Those arduous pats they trod. Pope.

2. Attended with great labor, like the ascending of acclivities;
difficult; laborious; as, an arduous employment, task, or enterprise.

Syn.
 -- Difficult; trying; laborious; painful; exhausting.
 -- Arduous, Hard, Difficult. Hard is simpler, blunter, and more
general in sense than difficult; as, a hard duty to perform, hard
work, a hard task, one which requires much bodily effort and
perseverance to do. Difficult commonly implies more skill and
sagacity than hard, as when there is disproportion between the means
and the end. A work may be hard but not difficult. We call a thing
arduous when it requires strenuous and persevering exertion, like
that of one who is climbing a precipice; as, an arduous task, an
arduous duty. "It is often difficult to control our feelings; it is
still harder to subdue our will; but it is an arduous undertaking to
control the unruly and contending will of others."

ARDUOUSLY
Ar"du*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an arduous manner; with difficulty or laboriousness.

ARDUOUSNESS
Ar"du*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being arduous; difficulty of execution.

ARDUROUS
Ar"du*rous, a.

Defn: Burning; ardent. [R.]
Lo! further on, Where flames the arduous Spirit of Isidore. Cary.

ARE
Are. Etym: [AS. (Northumbrian) aron, akin to the 1st pers. pl. forms,
Icel. erum, Goth. sijum, L. sumus, Gr. smas; all from a root as. Am
and Is, and cf. Be.]

Defn: The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be;
but etymologically a different word from be, or was. Am, art, are,
and is, all come from the root as.

ARE
Are, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. area. See Area.] (Metric system)

Defn: The unit of superficial measure, being a square of which each
side is ten meters in length; 100 square meters, or about 119.6
square yards.

AREA
A"re*a, n.; pl. Areas . Etym: [L. area a broad piece of level groAre,
n.]

1. Any plane surface, as of the floor of a room or church, or of the
ground within an inclosure; an open space in a building.
The Alban lake . . . looks like the area of some vast amphitheater.
Addison.

2. The inclosed space on which a building stands.

3. The sunken space or court, giving ingress and affording light to
the basement of a building.

4. An extent of surface; a tract of the earth's surface; a region;
as, vast uncultivated areas.

5. (Geom.)

Defn: The superficial contents of any figure; the surface included
within any given lines; superficial extent; as, the area of a square
or a triangle.

6. (Biol.)

Defn: A spot or small marked space; as, the germinative area.

7. Extent; scope; range; as, a wide area of thought.
The largest area of human history and man's common nature. F.
Harrison.
Dry area. See under Dry.

AREAD; AREED
A*read", A*reed", v. t. Etym: [OE. areden, AS. ar to interpret. See
Read.]

1. To tell, declare, explain, or interpret; to divine; to guess; as,
to aread a riddle or a dream. [Obs.]
Therefore more plain aread this doubtful case. Spenser.

2. To read. [Obs.] Drayton.

3. To counsel, advise, warn, or direct.
But mark what I aread thee now. Avaunt! Milton.

4. To decree; to adjudge. [Archaic] Ld. Lytton.

AREAL
A"re*al, a. Etym: [Cf. L. arealis, fr. area.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areas
or spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves).

AREAR
A*rear", v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. ar. See Rear.]

Defn: To raise; to set up; to stir up. [Obs.]

AREAR
A*rear", adv. Etym: [See Arrear, adv.]

Defn: Backward; in or to the rear; behindhand. Spenser.

ARECA
A*re"ca, n. Etym: [Canarese adiki: cf. Pg. & Sp. areca.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut,
or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the Piper
Betle and lime.

ARECOLINE; ARECOLIN
A*re"co*line, A*re"co*lin, n. [From NL. Areca, a genus of palms
bearing betel nut.]

Defn: An oily liquid substance, C8H13O2N, the chief alkaloid of the
betel nut, to which the latter owes its anthelmintic action.

AREEK
A*reek", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + reek.]

Defn: In a reeking condition. Swift.

AREFACTION
Ar`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. arefacere to dry.]

Defn: The act of drying, or the state of growing dry.
The arefaction of the earth. Sir M. Hale.

AREFY
Ar"e*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. arere to be dry + -fly.]

Defn: To dry, or make dry. Bacon.

ARENA
A*re"na, n.; pl. E. Arenas; L. Arenæ. Etym: [L. arena, harena, sand,
a sandy place.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: The area in the central part of an amphitheater, in which the
gladiators fought and other shows were exhibited; -- so called
because it was covered with sand.

2. Any place of public contest or exertion; any sphere of action; as,
the arenaof debate; the arena of life.

3. (Med.)

Defn: "Sand" or "gravel" in the kidneys.

ARENACEOUS
Ar`e*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. arenaceus, fr. arena sand.]

Defn: Sandy or consisting largely of sand; of the nature of sand;
easily disintegrating into sand; friable; as, arenaceous limestone.

ARENARIOUS
Ar`e*na"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. arenarius, fr. arena sand.]

Defn: Sandy; as, arenarious soil.

ARENATION
Ar`e*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. arenatio, fr. arena sand.] (Med.)

Defn: A sand bath; application of hot sand to the body. Dunglison.

ARENDATOR
Ar`en*da"tor, n. Etym: [LL. arendator, arrendator, fr. arendare,
arrendare, to pay rent, fr. arenda yearly rent; ad + renda, F. rente,
E. rent. Cf. Arrentation and Rent.]

Defn: In some provinces of Russia, one who farms the rents or
revenues.

Note: A person who rents an estate belonging to the crown is called
crown arendator. Tooke.

ARENG; ARENGA
A*reng", A*ren"ga, n. Etym: [Malayan.]

Defn: A palm tree (Saguerus saccharifer) which furnishes sago, wine,
and fibers for ropes; the gomuti palm.

ARENICOLITE
Ar`e*nic"o*lite, n. Etym: [L. arena sand + colere to cherish or
live.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An ancient wormhole in sand, preserved in the rocks. Dana.

ARENILITIC
A*ren`i*lit"ic, a. Etym: [L. arena sand + Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sandstone; as, arenilitic mountains.
Kirwan.

ARENOSE
Ar"e*nose, a. Etym: [L. arenosus, fr. arena sand.]

Defn: Sandy; full of sand. Johnson.

ARENULOUS
A*ren"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. arenula fine sand, dim. of arena.]

Defn: Full of fine sand; like sand. [Obs.]

AREOLA
A*re"o*la, n.; pl. Areolæ. Etym: [L. areola, dim. of area: cf. F.
aréole. See Area.]

1. An interstice or small space, as between the cracks of the surface
in certain crustaceous lichens; or as between the fibers composing
organs or vessels that interlace; or as between the nervures of an
insect's wing.

2. (Anat. & Med.)

Defn: The colored ring around the nipple, or around a vesicle or
pustule.

AREOLAR
A*re"o*lar, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an areola; filled with interstices or
areolæ. reolar tissue (Anat.), a form of fibrous connective tissue in
which the fibers are loosely arranged with numerous spaces, or
areolæ, between them.

AREOLATE; AREOLATED
A*re"o*late, A*re"o*la*ted, a. Etym: [L. areola: cf. F. aréole.]

Defn: Divided into small spaces or areolations, as the wings of
insects, the leaves of plants, or the receptacle of compound flowers.

AREOLATION
A`re*o*la"tion, n.

1. Division into areolæ. Dana.

2. Any small space, bounded by some part different in color or
structure, as the spaces bounded by the nervures of the wings of
insects, or those by the veins of leaves; an areola.

AREOLE
A"re*ole, n.

Defn: Same as Areola.

AREOLET
A*re"o*let, n. Etym: [Dim. of L. areola.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small inclosed area; esp. one of the small spaces on the
wings of insects, circumscribed by the veins.

AREOMETER
A`re*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. aréomètre.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the specific gravity of fluids; a
form hydrometer.

AREOMETRIC; AREOMETRICAL
A`re*o*met"ric, A`re*o*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or measured by, an areometer.

AREOMETRY
A`re*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.]

Defn: The art or process of measuring the specific gravity of fluids.

AREOPAGIST
Ar`e*op"a*gist, n.

Defn: See Areopagite.

AREOPAGITE
Ar`e*op"a*gite, n. Etym: [L. Areopagites, Gr.

Defn: A member of the Areopagus. Acts xvii. 34.

AREOPAGITIC
Ar`e*op`a*git"ic, a. Etym: [L. Areopagiticus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the Areopagus. Mitford.

AREOPAGUS
Ar`e*op"a*gus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: The highest judicial court at Athens. Its sessions were held on
Mars' Hill. Hence, any high court or tribunal

AREOSTYLE
A*re"o*style, a. & n.

Defn: See Intercolumniation, and Aræostyle.

AREOSYSTYLE
A*re`o*sys"tyle, a. & n.

Defn: See Intercolumniation, and Aræosystyle.

ARERE
A*rere", v. t. & i.

Defn: See Arear. [Obs.] Ellis.

AREST
A*rest", n.

Defn: A support for the spear when couched for the attack. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

ARET
A*ret", v. t. Etym: [OE. aretten, OF. areter; a (L. ad) + OF. reter,
L. reputare. See Repute.]

Defn: To reckon; to ascribe; to impute. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARETAICS
Ar`e*ta"ics, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The ethical theory which excludes all relations between virtue
and happiness; the science of virtue; -- contrasted with eudemonics.
J. Grote.

ARETE
A`rête", n. [F., lit., a sharp fish bone, ridge, sharp edge, fr. L.
arista beard of grain.] (Geog.)

Defn: An acute and rugged crest of a mountain range or a subsidiary
ridge between two mountain gorges.

ARETOLOGY
Ar`e*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. arétologie.]

Defn: That part of moral philosophy which treats of virtue, its
nature, and the means of attaining to it.

AREW
A*rew". adv. Etym: [See Arow, Row.]

Defn: In a row. [Obs.] "All her teeth arew." Spenser.

ARGAL
Ar"gal, n.

Defn: Crude tartar. See Argol.

ARGAL
Ar"gal, adv.

Defn: A ludicrous corruption of the Latin word ergo, therefore. Shak.

ARGAL; ARGALI
Ar"gal, Ar"ga*li, n. Etym: [Mongolian.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of wild sheep (Ovis ammon, or O. argali), remarkable
for its large horns. It inhabits the mountains of Siberia and central
Asia.

Note: The bearded argali is the aoudad. See Aoudad. The name is also
applied to the bighorn sheep of the Rocky Mountains. See Bighorn.

ARGALA
Ar"ga*la, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The adjutant bird.

ARGAND LAMP
Ar"gand lamp`. Etym: [Named from the inventor, Aimé Argand of
Geneva.]

Defn: A lamp with a circular hollow wick and glass chimney which
allow a current of air both inside and outside of the flame. Argand
burner, a burner for an Argand lamp, or a gas burner in which the
principle of that lamp is applied.

ARGAS
Ar"gas, n.

Defn: A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. The
famous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that of
Central America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje.

ARGEAN
Ar*ge"an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo.

ARGENT
Ar"gent, n. Etym: [F. argent, fr. L. argentum, silver; akin to Gr.
rajata white, silver, raj to shine, Ir. arg white, milk, airgiod
silver, money, and L. arguere to make clear. See Argue.]

1. Silver, or money. [Archaic]

2. (Fig. & Poet.)

Defn: Whiteness; anything that is white.
The polished argent of her breast. Tennyson.

3. (Her.)

Defn: The white color in coats of arms, intended to represent silver,
or, figuratively, purity, innocence, beauty, or gentleness; --
represented in engraving by a plain white surface. Weale.

ARGENT
Ar"gent, a.

Defn: Made of silver; of a silvery color; white; shining.
Yonder argent fields above. Pope.

ARGENTAL
Ar*gen"tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to silver; resembling, containing, or combined
with, silver.

ARGENTALIUM
Ar`gen*ta"li*um, n. [NL.; L. argentum silver + E. aluminium.]

Defn: A (patented) alloy of aluminium and silver, with a density of
about 2.9.

ARGENTAMINE; ARGENTAMIN
Ar*gen"ta*mine, Ar*gen"ta*min, n. [L. argentum silver + E. amine.]
(Med.)

Defn: A solution of silver phosphate in an aqueous solution of
ethylene diamine, used as an antiseptic astringent and as a
disinfectant.

ARGENTAN
Ar"gen*tan, n.

Defn: An alloy of nicked with copper and zinc; German silver.

ARGENTATE
Ar"gen*tate, a. Etym: [L. argentatus silvered.] (Bot.)

Defn: Silvery white. Gray.

ARGENTATION
Ar`gen*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. argentare to silver, fr. argentum
silver. See Argent.]

Defn: A coating or overlaying with silver. [R.] Johnson.

ARGENTIC
Ar*gen"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, silver; -- said of
certain compounds of silver in which this metal has its lowest
proportion; as, argentic chloride.

ARGENTIFEROUS
Ar`gen*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. argentum silver + -ferous: cf. F.
argentifère.]

Defn: Producing or containing silver; as, argentiferous lead ore or
veins.

ARGENTINE
Ar"gen*tine (; in the 2d sense, commonly ), a.

1. Pertaining to, or resembling, silver; made of, or sounding like,
silver; silvery.
Celestial Dian, goddess argentine. Shak.

2. Of or pertaining to the Argentine Republic in South America.

ARGENTINE
Ar"gen*tine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. argentin, fr. L. argentum silver.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A siliceous variety of calcite, or carbonate of lime, having a
silvery-white, pearly luster, and a waving or curved lamellar
structure.

2. White metal coated with silver. Simmonds.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of Europe (Maurolicus Pennantii) with silvery scales.
The name is also applied to various fishes of the genus Argentina.

4. A citizen of the Argentine Republic.

ARGENTITE
Ar"gen*tite, n. Etym: [L. argentum silver.] (Min.)

Defn: Sulphide of silver; -- also called vitreous silver, or silver
glance. It has a metallic luster, a lead-gray color, and is sectile
like lead.

ARGENTOUS
Ar*gen"tous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, silver; -- said of certain
silver compounds in which silver has a higher proportion than in
argentic compounds; as, argentous chloride.

ARGENTRY
Ar"gent*ry, n. Etym: [F. argenterie, fr. argent silver, L. argentum.]

Defn: Silver plate or vessels. [Obs.]
Bowls of frosted argentry. Howell.

ARGIL
Ar"gil, n. Etym: [F. argile, L. argilla white clay, akin to Gr.
Argent.] (Min.)

Defn: Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. See
Clay.

ARGILLACEOUS
Ar`gil*la"ceous, a. Etym: [L. argillaceus, fr. argilla.]

Defn: Of the nature of clay; consisting of, or containing, argil or
clay; clayey. Argillaceous sandstone (Geol.), a sandstone containing
much clay.
 -- Argillaceous iron ore, the clay ironstone.
 -- Argillaceous schist or state. See Argillite.

ARGILLIFEROUS
Ar`gil*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. argilla white clay + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing clay; -- applied to such earths as abound with argil.
Kirwan.

ARGILLITE
Ar"gil*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: Argillaceous schist or slate; clay slate. Its colors is bluish
or blackish gray, sometimes greenish gray, brownish red, etc.
 -- Ar`gil*lit"ic, a.

ARGILLO-AREENACEOUS
Ar*gil`lo-are`e*na"ceous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, clay and sand, as a soil.

ARGILLO-CALCAREOUS
Ar*gil`lo-cal*ca"re*ous, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or containing, clay and calcareous earth.

ARGILLO-FERRUGINOUS
Ar*gil`lo-fer*ru"gi*nous, a.

Defn: Containing clay and iron.

ARGILLOUS
Ar*gil"lous, a. Etym: [L. argillosus, fr. argilla. See Argil.]

Defn: Argillaceous; clayey. Sir T. Browne.

ARGIVE
Ar"give, a. Etym: [L. Argivus, fr. Argos, Argi.]

Defn: Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Argos. Often used as a generic term, equivalent to
Grecian or Greek.

ARGO
Ar"go, n. Etym: [L. Argo, Gr.

1. (Myth.)

Defn: The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-four
companions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A large constellation in the southern hemisphere, called also
Argo Navis. In modern astronomy it is replaced by its three
divisions, Carina, Puppis, and Vela.

ARGOAN
Ar*go"an, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the ship Argo.

ARGOILE
Ar"goile, n.

Defn: Potter's clay. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARGOL
Ar"gol, n. Etym: [Cf. Argal, Orgal. Of unknown origin.]

Defn: Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar is
prepared. It exists in the juice of grapes, and is deposited from
wines on the sides of the casks. Ure.

ARGOLIC
Ar*gol"ic, a. Etym: [L. Argolicus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to Argolis, a district in the Peloponnesus.

ARGON
Ar"gon, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphere
and remarkable for its chemical inertness. Rayleigh and Ramsay.

ARGONAUT
Ar"go*naut, n. Etym: [L. Argonauta, Gr. Argo.]

1. Any one of the legendary Greek heroes who sailed with Jason, in
the Argo, in quest of the Golden Fleece.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cephalopod of the genus Argonauta.

ARGONAUTA
Ar`go*nau"ta, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of Cephalopoda. The shell is called paper nautilus or
paper sailor.

Note: The animal has much resemblance to an Octopus. It has eight
arms, two of which are expanded at the end and clasp the shell, but
are never elevated in the air for sails as was formerly supposed. The
creature swims beneath the surface by means of a jet of water, like
other cephalopods. The male has no shell, and is much smaller than
the female. See Hectocotylus.

ARGONAUTIC
Ar"go*naut"ic, a. Etym: [L. Argonauticus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Argonauts.

ARGOSY
Ar"go*sy, n.; pl. Argosies. Etym: [Earlier ragusy, fr. ragusa meaning
orig. a vessel of Ragusa.]

Defn: A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size.
Where your argosies with portly sail . . . Do overpeer the petty
traffickers. Shak.

ARGOT
Ar`got", n. Etym: [F. Of unknown origin.]

Defn: A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves,
tramps, and vagabonds; flash.

ARGUABLE
Ar"gu*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being argued; admitting of debate.

ARGUE
Ar"gue, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Argued; p. pr. & vb. n. Arguing.] Etym:
[OE. arguen, F. arguer, fr. L. argutare, freq. of arguere to make
clear; from the same root as E. argent.]

1. To invent and offer reasons to support or overthrow a proposition,
opinion, or measure; to use arguments; to reason.
I argue not Against Heaven's hand or will. Milton.

2. To contend in argument; to dispute; to reason; -- followed by
with; as, you may argue with your friend without convincing him.

ARGUE
Ar"gue, v. t.

1. To debate or discuss; to treat by reasoning; as, the counsel
argued the cause before a full court; the cause was well argued.

2. To prove or evince; too manifest or exhibit by inference,
deduction, or reasoning.
So many laws argue so many sins. Milton.

3. To persuade by reasons; as, to argue a man into a different
opinion.

4. To blame; to accuse; to charge with. [Obs.]
Thoughts and expressions . . . which can be truly argued of
obscenity, profaneness, or immorality. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- to reason; evince; discuss; debate; expostulate; remonstrate;
controvert.
 -- To Argue, Dispute, Debate. These words, as here compared, suppose
a contest between two parties in respect to some point at issue. To
argue is to adduce arguments or reasons in support of one's cause or
position. To dispute is to call in question or deny the statements or
arguments of the opposing party. To debate is to strive for or
against in a somewhat formal manner by arguments.
Men of many words sometimes argue for the sake of talking; men of
ready tongues frequently dispute for the sake of victory; men in
public life often debate for the sake of opposing the ruling party,
or from any other motive than the love of truth. Crabb.
Unskilled to argue, in dispute yet loud, Bold without caution,
without honors proud. Falconer.
Betwixt the dearest friends to raise debate. Dryden.

ARGUER
Ar"gu*er, n.

Defn: One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant.

ARGUFY
Ar"gu*fy, v. t. & i. Etym: [Argue + -fy.]

1. To argue pertinaciously. [Colloq.] Halliwell.

2. To signify. [Colloq.]

ARGULUS
Ar"gu*lus, n. Etym: [NL., dim of Argus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of copepod Crustacea, parasitic of fishes; a fish
louse. See Branchiura.

ARGUMENT
Ar"gu*ment, n. Etym: [F. argument, L. argumentum, fr. arguere to
argue.]

1. Proof; evidence. [Obs.]
There is.. no more palpable and convincing argument of the existence
of a Deity. Ray.
Why, then, is it made a badge of wit and an argument of parts for a
man to commence atheist, and to cast off all belief of providence,
all awe and reverence for religion South.

2. A reason or reasons offered in proof, to induce belief, or
convince the mind; reasoning expressed in words; as, an argument
about, concerning, or regarding a proposition, for or in favor of it,
or against it.

3. A process of reasoning, or a controversy made up of rational
proofs; argumentation; discussion; disputation.
The argument is about things, but names. Locke.

4. The subject matter of a discourse, writing, or artistic
representation; theme or topic; also, an abstract or summary, as of
the contents of a book, chapter, poem.
You and love are still my argument. Shak.
The abstract or argument of the piece. Jeffrey.
[Shields] with boastful argument portrayed. Milton.

5. Matter for question; business in hand. [Obs.]
Sheathed their swords for lack of argument. Shak.

6. (Astron.)

Defn: The quantity on which another quantity in a table depends; as,
the altitude is the argument of the refraction.

7. (Math.)

Defn: The independent variable upon whose value that of a function
depends. Brande & C.

ARGUMENT
Ar"gu*ment, v. i. Etym: [L. argumentari.]

Defn: To make an argument; to argue. [Obs.] Gower.

ARGUMENTABLE
Ar`gu*men"ta*ble, a. Etym: [L. argumentabilis.]

Defn: Admitting of argument. [R.] Chalmers.

ARGUMENTAL
Ar`gu*men"tal, a. Etym: [L. argumentalis.]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, argument; argumentative.

ARGUMENTATION
Ar`gu*men*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. argumentatio, from argumentari: cf.
F. argumentation.]

1. The act of forming reasons, making inductions, drawing
conclusions, and applying them to the case in discussion; the
operation of inferring propositions, not known or admitted as true,
from facts or principles known, admitted, or proved to be true.
Which manner of argumentation, how false and naught it is, . . .
every man that hath with perceiveth. Tyndale.

2. Debate; discussion.

Syn.
 -- Reasoning; discussion; controversy. See Reasoning.

ARGUMENTATIVE
Ar`gu*men"ta*tive, a.

1. Consisting of, or characterized by, argument; containing a process
of reasoning; as, an argumentative discourse.

2. Adductive as proof; indicative; as, the adaptation of things to
their uses is argumentative of infinite wisdom in the Creator. [Obs.]

3. Given to argument; characterized by argument; disputatious; as, an
argumentative writer. --Ar`gu*men"ta*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Ar`gu*men"ta*tive*ness, n.

ARGUMENTIZE
Ar"gu*men*tize, v. i.

Defn: To argue or discuss. [Obs.] Wood.

ARGUS
Ar"gus, n. Etym: [L. Argus, Gr.

1. (Myth.)

Defn: A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes,
who has placed by Juno to guard Io. His eyes were transplanted to the
peacock's tail.

2. One very vigilant; a guardian always watchful.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of East Indian pheasants. The common species (A.
giganteus) is remarkable for the great length and beauty of the wing
and tail feathers of the male. The species A. Grayi inhabits Borneo.

ARGUS-EYED
Ar"gus-eyed, a.

Defn: Extremely observant; watchful; sharp-sighted.

ARGUS SHELL
Ar"gus shell` . (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of shell (Cypræa argus), beautifully variegated with
spots resembling those in a peacock's tail.

ARGUTATION
Ar`gu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. argutatio. See Argue.]

Defn: Caviling; subtle disputation. [Obs.]

ARGUTE
Ar*gute", a. Etym: [L. argutus, p. p. of arguere. See Argue.]

1. Sharp; shrill. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. Sagacious; acute; subtle; shrewd.
The active preacher . . . the argue schoolman. Milman.

ARGUTELY
Ar*gute"ly, adv.

Defn: In a subtle; shrewdly.

ARGUTENESS
Ar*gute"ness, n.

Defn: Acuteness. Dryden.

ARHIZAL; ARHIZOUS; ARHYTHMIC; ARHYTHMOUS
A*rhi"zal, A*rhi"zous, A*rhyth"*mic, A*rhyth"mous, a.

Defn: See Arrhizal, Arrhizous, Arrhythmic, Arrhythmous.

ARIA
A"ri*a, n. Etym: [It., fr. L. aër. See Air.] (Mus.)

Defn: An air or song; a melody; a tune.

Note: The Italian term is now mostly used for the more elaborate
accompanied melodies sung by a single voice, in operas, oratorios,
cantatas, anthems, etc., and not so much for simple airs or tunes.

ARIAN
Ar"ian, a. & n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: See Aryan.

ARIAN
A"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Arianus.]

Defn: Pertaining to Arius, a presbyter of the church of Alexandria,
in the fourth century, or to the doctrines of Arius, who held Christ
to be inferior to God the Father in nature and dignity, though the
first and noblest of all created beings.
 -- n.

Defn: One who adheres to or believes the doctrines of Arius. Mosheim.

ARIANISM
A"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines of the Arians.

ARIANIZE
A"ri*an*ize, v. i.

Defn: To admit or accept the tenets of the Arians; to become an
Arian.

ARIANIZE
A"ri*an*ize, v. t.

Defn: To convert to Arianism.

ARICINE
Ar"i*cine, n. Etym: [From Arica, in Chile.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid, first found in white cinchona bark.

ARID
Ar"id, a. Etym: [L. aridus, fr. arere to be dry: cf. F. aride.]

Defn: Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren. "An arid
waste." Thomson.

ARIDITY
A*rid"i*ty, n.; pl. Aridities. Etym: [L. ariditas, fr. aridus.]

1. The state or quality of being arid or without moisture; dryness.

2. Fig.: Want of interest of feeling; insensibility; dryness of style
or feeling; spiritual drought. Norris.

ARIDNESS
Ar"id*ness, n.

Defn: Aridity; dryness.

ARIEL; ARIEL GAZELLE
A"ri*el, n., or; A"ri*el ga*zelle". Etym: [Ar. aryil, ayyil, stag.]
(Zoöl.) A)

Defn: A variety of the gazelle (Antilope, or Gazella, dorcas), found
in Arabia and adjacent countries. (b) A squirrel-like Australian
marsupial, a species of Petaurus. (c) A beautiful Brazilian toucan
Ramphastos ariel).

ARIES
A"ri*es, n. Etym: [L.]

1. (Astron.)
(a) The Ram; the first of the twelve signs in the zodiac, which the
sun enters at the vernal equinox, about the 21st of March.
(b) A constellation west of Taurus, drawn on the celestial globe in
the figure of a ram.

2. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A battering-ram.

ARIETATE
Ar"i*e*tate, v. i. Etym: [L. arietatus, p. p. of arietare, fr. aries
ram.]

Defn: To butt, as a ram. [Obs.]

ARIETATION
Ar`i*e*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. arietatio.]

1. The act of butting like a ram; act of using a battering-ram.
[Obs.] Bacon.

2. Act of striking or conflicting. [R.] Glanvill.

ARIETTA; ARIETTE
A`ri*et"ta, Ar`i*ette", n. Etym: [It. arietta, dim. of aria; F.
ariette.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short aria, or air. "A military ariette." Sir W. Scott.

ARIGHT
A*right", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + right.]

Defn: Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake or
crime; as, to worship God aright.

ARIL; ARILLUS
Ar"il, A*ril"lus, n. Etym: [From LL. arilli dry grapes, perh. fr. L.
aridus dry: cf. F,. arille.] (Bot.)

Defn: A exterior covering, forming a false coat or appendage to a
seed, as the loose, transparent bag inclosing the seed or the white
water lily. The mace of the nutmeg is also an aril. Gray.

ARILLATE; ARILLATED; ARILED
Ar"il*late. Ar"il*la`ted, Ar"iled, a. Etym: [Cf. NL. arillatus, F.
arillé.]

Defn: Having an aril.

ARILLODE
Ar"il*lode, n.  [Arillus + Gr.  form.] (Bot.)

Defn: A false aril; an aril originating from the micropyle instead of
from the funicle or chalaza of the ovule. The mace of the nutmeg is
an arillode.

ARIMAN
A"ri*man, n.

Defn: See Ahriman.

ARIOLATION
Ar`i*o*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. ariolatio, hariolatio, fr. hariolari to
prophesy, fr. hariolus soothsayer.]

Defn: A soothsaying; a foretelling. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ARIOSE
Ar"i*ose, a. Etym: [It. arioso, fr. aria.]

Defn: Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony.
Mendelssohn wants the ariose beauty of Handel; vocal melody is not
his forte; the interest of his airs harmonic. Foreign Quart. Rev.

ARIOSO
A`ri*o"so, adv. & a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose.

ARISE
A*rise", v. i. [imp. Arose; p. pr. & vb. n. Arising; p. p. Arisen.].
Etym: [AS. arisan; a (equiv. to Goth. us-, ur-, G. er-, orig. meaning
out) + risan to rise; cf. Goth. urreisan to arise. See Rise.]

1. To come up from a lower to a higher position; to come above the
horizon; to come up from one's bed or place of repose; to mount; to
ascend; to rise; as, to arise from a kneeling posture; a cloud arose;
the sun ariseth; he arose early in the morning.

2. To spring up; to come into action, being, or notice; to become
operative, sensible, or visible; to begin to act a part; to present
itself; as, the waves of the sea arose; a persecution arose; the
wrath of the king shall arise.
There arose up a new king . . . which knew not Joseph. Ex. i. 8.
The doubts that in his heart arose. Milton.

3. To proceed; to issue; to spring.
Whence haply mention may arise Of something not unseasonable to ask.
Milton.

ARISE
A*rise", n.

Defn: Rising. [Obs.] Drayton.

ARIST
A*rist", 3d sing. pres.

Defn: of Arise, for ariseth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARISTA
A*ris"ta, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: An awn. Gray.

ARISTARCH
Ar"is*tarch, n. Etym: [From Aristarchus, a Greek grammarian and
critic, of Alexandria, about 200 b. c.]

Defn: A severe critic. Knowles.

ARISTARCHIAN
Ar`is*tar"chi*an, a.

Defn: Severely critical.

ARISTARCHY
Ar"is*tar`chy, n.

Defn: Severely criticism.

ARISTARCHY
Ar"is*tar`chy, n.

Defn: Severe criticism. [Obs.] Sir J. Harrington.

ARISTATE
A*ris"tate, a. Etym: [L. aristatus, fr. arista. See Arista.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a pointed, beardlike process, as the glumes of wheat;
awned. Gray.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a slender, sharp, or spinelike tip.

ARISTOCRACY
Ar`is*toc"ra*cy, n.; pl. Aristocracies. Etym: [Gr. arm, and orig.
meant fitting: cf. F. aristocratie. See Arm, and Create, which is
related to Gr.

1. Government by the best citizens.

2. A ruling body composed of the best citizens. [Obs.]
In the Senate Right not our quest in this, I will protest them To all
the world, no aristocracy. B. Jonson.

3. A form a government, in which the supreme power is vested in the
principal persons of a state, or in a privileged order; an oligarchy.
The aristocracy of Venice hath admitted so many abuses, trough the
degeneracy of the nobles, that the period of its duration seems
approach. Swift.

4. The nobles or chief persons in a state; a privileged class or
patrician order; (in a popular use) those who are regarded as
superior to the rest of the community, as in rank, fortune, or
intellect.

ARISTOCRAT
A*ris"to*crat, n. Etym: [F. aristocrate. See Aristocracy.]

1. One of the aristocracy or people of rank in a community; one of a
ruling class; a noble.

2. One who is overbearing in his temper or habits; a proud or haughty
person.
A born aristocrat, bred radical. Mrs. Browning.

3. One who favors an aristocracy as a form of government, or believes
the aristocracy should govern.
His whole family are accused of being aristocrats. Romilly.

ARISTOCRATIC; ARISTOCRATICAL
Ar`is*to*crat"ic, Ar`is*to*crat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. aristocratique.]

1. Of or pertaining to an aristocracy; consisting in, or favoring, a
government of nobles, or principal men; as, an aristocratic
constitution.

2. Partaking of aristocracy; befitting aristocracy; characteristic
of, or originating with, the aristocracy; as, an aristocratic
measure; aristocratic pride or manners.
 -- Ar`is*to*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Ar`is*to*crat"ic*al*ness, n.

ARISTOCRATISM
Ar"is*to*crat`ism, n.

1. The principles of aristocrats. Romilly.

2. Aristocrats, collectively. [R.]

ARISTOLOGY
Ar`is*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of dining. Quart. Rev.

ARISTOPHANIC
Ar`is*to*phan"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aristophanes, the Athenian comic poet.

ARISTOTELIAN
Ar`is*to*te"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Aristotle, the famous Greek philosopher
(384-322 b. c.).
 -- n.

Defn: A follower of Aristotle; a Peripatetic. See Peripatetic.

ARISTOTELIANISM
Ar`is*to*te"li*an*ism.

Defn: The philosophy of Aristotle, otherwise called the Peripatetic
philosophy.

ARISTOTELIC
Ar`is*to*tel"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Aristotle or to his philosophy. "Aristotelic
usage." Sir W. Hamilton.

ARISTOTLE'S LANTERN
Ar"is*to`tle's lan"tern. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The five united jaws and accessory ossicles of certain sea
urchins.

ARISTOTYPE
A*ris"to*type`, n. [Gr.  best + -type.] (Photog.)

Defn: Orig., a printing-out process using paper coated with silver
chloride in gelatin; now, any such process using silver salts in
either collodion or gelatin; also, a print so made.

ARISTULATE
A*ris"tu*late, a. Etym: [Dim. fr. arista.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining a short beard or awn. Gray.

ARITHMANCY
Ar"ith*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of numbers.

ARITHMETIC
A*rith"me*tic, n. Etym: [OE. arsmetike, OF. arismetique, L.
arithmetica, fr. Gr. arm, the idea of counting coming from that of
fitting, attaching. See Arm. The modern Eng. and French forms are
accommodated to the Greek.]

1. The science of numbers; the art of computation by figures.

2. A book containing the principles of this science. Arithmetic of
sines, trigonometry.
 -- Political arithmetic, the application of the science of numbers
to problems in civil government, political economy, and social
science.
 -- Universal arithmetic, the name given by Sir Isaac Newton to
algebra.

ARITHMETICAL
Ar`ith*met"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to arithmetic; according to the rules or
method of arithmetic. Arithmetical complement of a logarithm. See
Logarithm.
 -- Arithmetical mean. See Mean.
 -- Arithmetical progression. See Progression.
 -- Arithmetical proportion. See Proportion.

ARITHMETICALLY
Ar`ith*met"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Conformably to the principles or methods of arithmetic.

ARITHMETICIAN
A*rith`me*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. arithméticien.]

Defn: One skilled in arithmetic.

ARITHMOMANCY
A*rith"mo*man"cy, n.

Defn: Arithmancy.

ARITHMOMETER
Ar`ith*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. arithmomètre.]

Defn: A calculating machine.

ARK
Ark, n. Etym: [OE. ark, arke, arche, AS. arc, earc, earce, fr. L.
arca, fr. arcere to inclose, keep off; akin to Gr.

1. A chest, or coffer. [Obs.]
Bearing that precious relic in an ark. Spenser.

2. (Jewish Hist.)

Defn: The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, which
supported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied the
most sacred place in the sanctuary. In it Moses placed the two tables
of stone containing the ten commandments. Called also the Ark of the
Covenant.

3. The large, chestlike vessel in which Noah and his family were
preserved during the Deluge. Gen. vi. Hence: Any place of refuge.

4. A large flatboat used on Western American rivers to transport
produce to market.

ARKITE
Ark"ite, a.

Defn: Belonging to the ark. [R.] Faber.

ARKOSE
Ar*kose", n. [F] (Petrog)

Defn: A sandstone derived from the disintegration of granite or
gneiss, and characterized by feldspar fragments. -- Ar*kos"ic (#), a.

ARK SHELL
Ark" shell`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine bivalve shell belonging to the genus Arca and its
allies.

ARLES
Arles, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. F. arrhes, Scot. airles. Cf. Earles penny.]

Defn: An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain.
[Scot.] Arles penny, earnest money given to servants. Kersey.

ARM
Arm, n. Etym: [AS. arm, earm; akin to OHG. aram, G., D., Dan., & Sw.
arm, Icel. armr, Goth. arms, L. armus arm, shoulder, and prob. to Gr.
rame. Art, Article.]

1. The limb of the human body which extends from the shoulder to the
hand; also, the corresponding limb of a monkey.

2. Anything resembling an arm; as,
(a) The fore limb of an animal, as of a bear.
(b) A limb, or locomotive or prehensile organ, of an invertebrate
animal.
(c) A branch of a tree.
(d) A slender part of an instrument or machine, projecting from a
trunk, axis, or fulcrum; as, the arm of a steelyard.
(e) (Naut) The end of a yard; also, the part of an anchor which ends
in the fluke.
(f) An inlet of water from the sea.
(g) A support for the elbow, at the side of a chair, the end of a
sofa, etc.

3. Fig.: Power; might; strength; support; as, the secular arm; the
arm of the law.
To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed Isa. lii. 1.
Arm's end, the end of the arm; a good distance off. Dryden.
 -- Arm's length, the length of the arm.
 -- Arm's reach, reach of the arm; the distance the arm can reach.
 -- To go (or walk) arm in arm, to go with the arm or hand of one
linked in the arm of another. "When arm in armwe went along."
Tennyson.
 -- To keep at arm's length, to keep at a distance (literally or
figuratively); not to allow to come into close contact or familiar
intercourse.
 -- To work at arm's length, to work disadvantageously.

ARM
Arm, n. Etym: [See Arms.] (Mil.)
(a) A branch of the military service; as, the cavalry arm was made
efficient.
(b) A weapon of offense or defense; an instrument of warfare; --
commonly in the pl.

ARM
Arm, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Armed; p. pr. & vb. n. Arming.] Etym: [OE.
armen, F. armer, fr. L. armare, fr. arma, pl., arms. See arms.]

1. To take by the arm; to take up in one's arms. [Obs.]
And make him with our pikes and partisans A grave: come, arm him.
Shak.
Arm your prize; I know you will not lose him. Two N. Kins.

2. To furnish with arms or limbs. [R.]
His shoulders broad and strong, Armed long and round. Beau. & Fl.

3. To furnish or equip with weapons of offense or defense; as, to arm
soldiers; to arm the country.
Abram . . . armed his trained servants. Gen. xiv. 14.

4. To cover or furnish with a plate, or with whatever will add
strength, force, security, or efficiency; as, to arm the hit of a
sword; to arm a hook in angling.

5. Fig.: To furnish with means of defense; to prepare for resistance;
to fortify, in a moral sense.
Arm yourselves . . . with the same mind. 1 Pet. iv. 1.
To arm a magnet, to fit it with an armature.

ARM
Arm, v. i.

Defn: To provide one's self with arms, weapons, or means of attack or
resistance; to take arms. " 'Tis time to arm." Shak.

ARMADA
Ar*ma"da, n. Etym: [Sp. armada, L. as if armata (sc. classic fleet),
fr. armatus, p. p. of armare. See Arm, v. t. Army.]

Defn: A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanish
fleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558.

ARMADILLO
Ar`ma*dil"lo, n.; pl. Armadillos. Etym: [Sp. armadillo, dim. of
armado armed, p. p. of armar to arm. Do called from being armed with
a bony shell.] (Zoöl.)
(a) Any edentate animal if the family Dasypidæ, peculiar to America.
The body and head are incased in an armor composed of small bony
plates. The armadillos burrow in the earth, seldom going abroad
except at night. When attacked, they curl up into a ball, presenting
the armor on all sides. Their flesh is good food. There are several
species, one of which (the peba) is found as far north as Texas. See
Peba, Poyou, Tatouay.
(b) A genus of small isopod Crustacea that can roll themselves into a
ball.

ARMADO
Ar*ma"do, n.

Defn: Armada. [Obs.]

ARMAMENT
Ar"ma*ment, n. Etym: [L. armamenta, pl., utensils, esp. the tackle of
a ship, fr. armare to arm: cf. LL. armamentum, F. armement.]

1. A body of forces equipped for war; -- used of a land or naval
force. "The whole united armament of Greece." Glover.

2. (Mil. & Nav.)

Defn: All the cannon and small arms collectively, with their
equipments, belonging to a ship or a fortification.

3. Any equipment for resistance.

ARMAMENTARY
Ar`ma*men"ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. armamentarium, fr. armamentum: cf. F.
armamentaire.]

Defn: An armory; a magazine or arsenal. [R.]

ARMATURE
Ar"ma*ture, n. Etym: [L. armatura, fr. armare to arm: cf. F.
armature. See Arm, v. t., Armor.]

1. Armor; whatever is worn or used for the protection and defense of
the body, esp. the protective outfit of some animals and plants.

2. (Magnetism)

Defn: A piece of soft iron used to connect the two poles of a magnet,
or electro-magnet, in order to complete the circuit, or to receive
and apply the magnetic force. In the ordinary horseshoe magnet, it
serves to prevent the dissipation of the magnetic force.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: Iron bars or framing employed for the consolidation of a
building, as in sustaining slender columns, holding up canopies, etc.
Oxf. Gloss.

ARMCHAIR
Arm"chair`, n.

Defn: A chair with arms to support the elbows or forearms. Tennyson.

ARMED
Armed, a.

1. Furnished with weapons of offense or defense; furnished with the
means of security or protection. "And armed host." Dryden.

2. Furnished with whatever serves to add strength, force, or
efficiency.
A distemper eminently armed from heaven. De Foe.

3. (Her.)

Defn: Having horns, beak, talons, etc; -- said of beasts and birds of
prey. Armed at all points (Blazoning), completely incased in armor,
sometimes described as armed cap-à-pie. Cussans.
 -- Armed en flute. (Naut.) See under Flute.
 -- Armed magnet, a magnet provided with an armature.
 -- Armed neutrality. See under Neutrality.

ARMENIAN
Ar*me"ni*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. Arménien, L. Armenias, fr. Armenia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Armenia. Armenian bole, a soft clayey earth
of a bright red color found in Armenia, Tuscany, etc.
 -- Armenian stone. (a) The commercial name of lapis lazuli. (b)
Emery.

ARMENIAN
Ar*me"ni*an, n.

1. A native or one of the people of Armenia; also, the language of
the Armenians.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: An adherent of the Armenian Church, an organization similar in
some doctrines and practices to the Greek Church, in others to the
Roman Catholic.

ARMET
Arm"et, n. Etym: [F., dim. of arme arm, or corrupted for healmet
helmet.]

Defn: A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.

ARMFUL
Arm"ful, n.; pl. Armfulus.

Defn: As much as the arm can hold.

ARMGAUNT
Arm"gaunt`, a.

Defn: With gaunt or slender legs. "An armgaunt steed." Shak.

Note: This word is peculiar to Shakespeare. Its meaning has not yet
been satisfactorily explained.

ARM-GRET
Arm"-gret`, a.

Defn: Great as a man's arm. [Obs.]
A wreath of gold, arm-gret. Chaucer.

ARMHOLE
Arm"hole`, n. Etym: [Arm + hole.]

1. The cavity under the shoulder; the armpit. Bacon.

2. A hole for the arm in a garment.

ARMIFEROUS
Ar*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. armifer; arma arms + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Bearing arms or weapons. [R.]

ARMIGER
Ar"mi*ger, n. Etym: [L. armiger armor bearer; arma arms + gerere to
bear.]

Defn: Formerly, an armor bearer, as of a knight, an esquire who bore
his shield and rendered other services. In later use, one next in
degree to a knight, and entitled to armorial bearings. The term is
now superseded by esquire. Jacob.

ARMIGEROUS
Ar*mig"er*ous, a.

Defn: Bearing arms. [R.]
They belonged to the armigerous part of the population, and were
entitled to write themselves Esquire. De Quincey.

ARMIL
Ar"mil, n. Etym: [L. armilla a bracelet, fr. armus arm: cf. OF.
armille.]

1. A bracelet. [Obs.]

2. An ancient astronomical instrument.

Note: When composed of one ring placed in the plane of the equator
for determining the time of the equinoxes, it is called an
equinoctial armil; when of two or more rings, one in the plane of the
meridian, for observing the solstices, it is called a solstitial
armil. Whewell.

ARMILLA
Ar*mil"la, n.; pl. E. Armillas, L. Armillæ. Etym: [L., a bracelet.]

1. An armil.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A ring of hair or feathers on the legs.

ARMILLARY
Ar"mil*la*ry, a. Etym: [LL. armillarius, fr. L. armilla arm ring,
bracelet, fr. armus arm: cf. F. armillaire. See Arm, n.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a bracelet or ring; consisting of
rings or circles. Armillary sphere, an ancient astronomical machine
composed of an assemblage of rings, all circles of the same sphere,
designed to represent the positions of the important circles of the
celestial sphere. Nichol.

ARMING
Arm"ing, n.

1. The act of furnishing with, or taking, arms.
The arming was now universal. Macaulay.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of tallow placed in a cavity at the lower end of a
sounding lead, to bring up the sand, shells, etc., of the sea bottom.
Totten.

3. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Red dress cloths formerly hung fore and aft outside of a ship's
upper works on holidays. Arming press (Bookbinding), a press for
stamping titles and designs on the covers of books.

ARMINIAN
Ar*min"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Arminius of his followers, or to their
doctrines. See note under Arminian, n.

ARMINIAN
Ar*min"i*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who holds the tenets of Arminius, a Dutch divine (b. 1560,
d. 1609).

Note: The Arminian doctrines are: 1. Conditional election and
reprobation, in opposition to absolute predestination. 2. Universal
redemption, or that the atonement was made by Christ for all mankind,
though none but believers can be partakers of the benefit. 3. That
man, in order to exercise true faith, must be regenerated and renewed
by the operation of the Holy Spirit, which is the gift of God. 4.
That man may resist divine grace. 5. That man may relapse from a
state of grace.

ARMINIANISM
Ar*min"i*an*ism, n.

Defn: The religious doctrines or tenets of the Arminians.

ARMIPOTENCE
Ar*mip"o*tence, n. Etym: [L. armipotentia, fr. armipotents.]

Defn: Power in arms. [R.] Johnson.

ARMIPOTENT
Ar*mip"o*tent, a. Etym: [L. armipotents; arma arms + potens powerful,
p. pr. of posse to be able.]

Defn: Powerful in arms; mighty in battle.
The temple stood of Mars armipotent. Dryden.

ARMISONANT; ARMISONOUS
Ar*mis"o*nant, Ar*mis"o*nous, a. Etym: [L. armisonus; arma arms +
sonare (p. pr. sonans) to sound.]

Defn: Rustling in arms; resounding with arms. [Obs.]

ARMISTICE
Ar"mis*tice, n. Etym: [F. armistice, fr. (an assumed word) L.
armistitium; arma arms + stare, statum (combining form, -stitum), to
stand still.]

Defn: A cessation of arms for a short time, by convention; a
temporary suspension of hostilities by agreement; a truce.

ARMLESS
Arm"less, a.

1. Without any arm or branch.

2. Destitute of arms or weapons.

ARMLET
Arm"let, n. Etym: [Arm + -let.]

1. A small arm; as, an armlet of the sea. Johnson.

2. An arm ring; a bracelet for the upper arm.

3. Armor for the arm.

ARMONIAC
Ar*mo"ni*ac, a.

Defn: Ammoniac. [Obs.]

ARMOR
Ar"mor, n. Etym: [OE. armure, fr. F. armure, OF. armeure, fr. L.
armatura. See Armature.] [Spelt also armour.]

1. Defensive arms for the body; any clothing or covering worn to
protect one's person in battle.

Note: In English statues, armor is used for the whole apparatus of
war, including offensive as well as defensive arms. The statues of
armor directed what arms every man should provide.

2. Steel or iron covering, whether of ships or forts, protecting them
from the fire of artillery. Coat armor, the escutcheon of a person or
family, with its several charges and other furniture, as mantling,
crest, supporters, motto, etc.
 -- Submarine, a water-tight dress or covering for a diver. See under
Submarine.

ARMOR-BEARER
Ar"mor-bear`er, n.

Defn: One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger. Judg.
ix. 54.

ARMORED
Ar"mored, a.

Defn: Clad with armor.

ARMORED CRUISER
Ar"mored cruis"er. (Nav.)

Defn: A man-of-war carrying a large coal supply, and more or less
protected from the enemy's shot by iron or steel armor. There is no
distinct and accepted classification distinguishing armored and
protected cruisers from each other, except that the first have more
or heavier armor than the second.

ARMORER
Ar"mor*er, n. Etym: [OE. armurer, armerer, fr. F. armurter, fr.
armure armor.]

1. One who makes or repairs armor or arms.

2. Formerly, one who had care of the arms and armor of a knight, and
who dressed him in armor. Shak.

3. One who has the care of arms and armor, cleans or repairs them,
etc.

ARMORIAL
Ar*mo"ri*al, a. Etym: [F. armorial, fr. armoiries arms, coats of
arms, for armoieries, fr. OF. armoier to paint arms, coats of arms,
fr. armes, fr. L. arma. See Arms, Armory.]

Defn: Belonging to armor, or to the heraldic arms or escutcheon of a
family.
Figures with armorial signs of race and birth. Wordsworth.
Armorial bearings. See Arms, 4.

ARMORIC; ARMORICAN
Ar*mor"ic, Ar*mor"i*can, a. Etym: [L. Armoricus, fr. Celtic ar on, at
+ mor sea.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the northwestern part of France (formerly
called Armorica, now Bretagne or Brittany), or to its people.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of the Armoricans, a Celtic dialect which has
remained to the present times.

ARMORICAN
Ar*mor"i*can, n.

Defn: A native of Armorica.

ARMORIST
Ar"mor*ist, n. Etym: [F. armoriste.]

Defn: One skilled in coat armor or heraldry. Cussans.

ARMOR-PLATED
Ar"mor-plat`ed, a.

Defn: Covered with defensive plates of metal, as a ship of war;
steel-clad.
This day will be launched . . . the first armor-plated steam frigate
in the possession of Great Britain. Times (Dec. 29, 1860).

ARMORY
Ar"mo*ry, n.; pl. Armories. Etym: [OF. armaire, armarie, F. armoire,
fr. L. armarium place for keeping arms; but confused with F.
armoiries. See Armorial, Ambry.]

1. A place where arms and instruments of war are deposited for safe
keeping.

2. Armor: defensive and offensive arms.
Celestial armory, shields, helms, and spears. Milton.

3. A manufactory of arms, as rifles, muskets, pistols, bayonets,
swords. [U.S.]

4. Ensigns armorial; armorial bearings. Spensplw.

5. That branch of hplwaldry which treats of coat armor.
The science of heraldry, or, more justly speaking, armory, which is
but one branch of heraldry, is, without doubt, of very ancient
origin. Cussans.

ARMOZEEN; ARMOZINE
Ar`mo*zeen", Ar`mo*zine", n. Etym: [armosin, armoisin.]

Defn: A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.
Simmonds.

ARMPIT
Arm"pit`, n. Etym: [Arm + pit.]

Defn: The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; the
axilla.

ARMRACK
Arm"rack`, n.

Defn: A frame, generally vertical, for holding small arms.

ARMS
Arms, n. pl. Etym: [OE. armes, F. arme, pl. armes, fr. L. arma, pl.,
arms, orig. fittings, akin to armus shoulder, and E. arm. See Arm,
n.]

1. Instruments or weapons of offense or defense.
He lays down his arms, but not his wiles. Milton.
Three horses and three goodly suits of arms. Tennyson.

2. The deeds or exploits of war; military service or science. "Arms
and the man I sing." Dryden.

3. (Law)

Defn: Anything which a man takes in his hand in anger, to strike or
assault another with; an aggressive weapon. Cowell. Blackstone.

4. (Her.)

Defn: The ensigns armorial of a family, consisting of figures and
colors borne in shields, banners, etc., as marks of dignity and
distinction, and descending from father to son.

5. (Falconry)

Defn: The legs of a hawk from the thigh to the foot. Halliwell. Bred
to arms, educated to the profession of a soldier.
 -- In arms, armed for war; in a state of hostility.
 -- Small arms, portable firearms known as muskets, rifles, carbines,
pistols, etc.
 -- A stand of arms, a complete set for one soldier, as a musket,
bayonet, cartridge box and belt; frequently, the musket and bayonet
alone.
 -- To arms! a summons to war or battle.
 -- Under arms, armed and equipped and in readiness for battle, or
for a military parade. Arm's end, Arm's length, Arm's reach. See
under Arm.

ARMURE
Ar"mure, n. Etym: [F. See Armor.]

1. Armor. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A variety of twilled fabric ribbed on the surface.

ARMY
Ar"my, n. Etym: [F. armée, fr. L. armata, fem. of armatus, p. p. of
armare to arm. Cf. Armada.]

1. A collection or body of men armed for war, esp. one organized in
companies, battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, under
proper officers.

2. A body of persons organized for the advancement of a cause; as,
the Blue Ribbon Army.

3. A great number; a vast multitude; a host.
An army of good words. Shak.
Standing army, a permanent army of professional soldiers, as
distinguished from militia or volunteers.

ARMY ORGANIZATION
Army organization.

Defn: The system by which a country raises, classifies, arranges, and
equips its armed land forces. The usual divisions are: (1) A regular
or active army, in which soldiers serve continuously with the colors
and live in barracks or cantonments when not in the field; (2) the
reserves of this army, in which the soldiers, while remaining
constantly subject to a call to the colors, live at their homes,
being summoned more or less frequently to report for instruction,
drill, or maneuvers; and (3) one or more classes of soldiers
organized largely for territorial defense, living at home and having
only occasional periods of drill and instraction, who are variously
called home reserves (as in the table below), second, third, etc.,
line of defense (the regular army and its reserves ordinarily
constituting the first line of defense), territorial forces, or the
like. In countries where conscription prevails a soldier is supposed
to serve a given number of years.  He is usually enrolled first in
the regular army, then passes to its reserve, then into the home
reserves, to serve until he reaches the age limit. It for any reason
he is not enrolled in the regular army, he may begin his service in
the army reserves or even the home reserves, but then serves the full
number of years or up to the age limit. In equipment the organization
of the army is into the three great arms of infantry, cavalry, and
artillery, together with more or less numerous other branches, such
as engineers, medical corps, etc., besides the staff organizations
such as those of the pay and subsistence departments.

ARMY WORM
Ar"my worm`. (Zoöl.)
(a) A lepidopterous insect, which in the larval state often travels
in great multitudes from field to field, destroying grass, grain, and
other crops. The common army worm of the northern United States is
Leucania unipuncta. The name is often applied to other related
species, as the cotton worm.
(b) The larva of a small two-winged fly (Sciara), which marches in
large companies, in regular order. See Cotton worm, under Cotton.

ARNA; ARNEE
Ar"na, Ar"nee, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger than
the domestic buffalo and having enormous horns.

ARNATTO
Ar*nat"to, n.

Defn: See Annotto.

ARNAUT; ARNAOUT
Ar*naut"  Ar*naout", n. [Turk. Arnaut, fr. NGr. , for .]

Defn: An inhabitant of Albania and neighboring mountainous regions,
specif. one serving as a soldier in the Turkish army.

ARNICA
Ar"ni*ca, n. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of ptarmica.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnica
montana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as a
narcotic and stimulant.

Note: The tincture of arnica is applied externally as a remedy for
bruises, sprains, etc.

ARNICIN
Ar"ni*cin, n. Etym: [See Arnica.] (Chem.)

Defn: An active principle of Arnica montana. It is a bitter resin.

ARNICINE
Ar"ni*cine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.

ARNOT; ARNUT
Ar"not, Ar"nut, n. Etym: [Cf. D. aardnoot, E. earthut.]

Defn: The earthnut. [Obs.]

ARNOTTO
Ar*not"to, n.

Defn: Same as Annotto.

AROID; AROIDEOUS
A"roid, A*roid"e*ous, a. Etym: [Arum + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, the Arum family of plants.

AROINT
A*roint", interj. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. rynt, rynt thee, roynt, or
runt, terms used by milkmaids to a cow that has been milked, in order
to drive her away, to make room for others; AS. r to make room or
way, fr. r room. The final t is perh. for ta, for thou. Cf. Room
space.]

Defn: Stand off, or begone. [Obs.]
Aroint thee, witch, the rump-fed ronyon cries. Shak.

AROINT
A*roint", v. t.

Defn: To drive or scare off by some exclamation. [R.] "Whiskered cats
arointed flee." Mrs. Browning.

AROLLA
A*rol"la (a*rol"la), n. [F. arolle.] (Bot.)

Defn: The stone pine (Pinus Cembra).

AROMA
A*ro"ma, n. Etym: [L. aroma, Gr. aromaz, aromat, spice, F. aromate.]

1. The quality or principle of plants or other substances which
constitutes their fragrance; agreeable odor; as, the aroma of coffee.

2. Fig.: The fine diffusive quality of intellectual power; flavor;
as, the subtile aroma of genius.

AROMATIC; AROMATICAL
Ar`o*mat"ic, Ar`o*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. aromaticus, Gr. aromatique.
See Aroma.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong-
scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam. Aromatic compound (Chem.),
one of a large class of organic substances, as the oils of bitter
almonds, wintergreen, and turpentine, the balsams, camphors, etc.,
many of which have an aromatic odor. They include many of the most
important of the carbon compounds and may all be derived from the
benzene group, C6H6. The term is extended also to many of their
derivatives.
 -- Aromatic vinegar. See under Vinegar.

AROMATIC
Ar`o*mat"ic, n.

Defn: A plant, drug, or medicine, characterized by a fragrant smell,
and usually by a warm, pungent taste, as ginger, cinnamon spices.

AROMATIZATION
Ar`o*mat`i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aromatisation.]

Defn: The act of impregnating or secting with aroma.

AROMATIZE
A*ro"ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aromatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aromatizing.] Etym: [L. aromatizare, Gr. aromatiser.]

Defn: To impregnate with aroma; to render aromatic; to give a spicy
scent or taste to; to perfume. Bacon.

AROMATIZER
A*ro"ma*ti`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, aromatizes or renders aromatic. Evelyn.

AROMATOUS
A*ro"ma*tous, a.

Defn: Aromatic. [Obs.] Caxton.

AROPH
Ar"oph, n. Etym: [A contraction of aroma philosophorum.]

Defn: A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate various
medical remedies. [Obs.]

AROSE
A*rose".

Defn: The past or preterit tense of Arise.

AROUND
A*round", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + round.]

1. In a circle; circularly; on every side; round.

2. In a circuit; here and there within the surrounding space; all
about; as, to travel around from town to town.

3. Near; in the neighborhood; as, this man was standing around when
the fight took place. [Colloq. U. S.]

Note: See Round, the shorter form, adv. & prep., which, in some of
the meanings, is more commonly used.

AROUND
A*round", prep.

1. On all sides of; encircling; encompassing; so as to make the
circuit of; about.
A lambent flame arose, which gently spread Around his brows. Dryden.

2. From one part to another of; at random through; about; on another
side of; as, to travel around the country; a house standing around
the corner. [Colloq. U. S.]

AROUSAL
A*rous"al, n.

Defn: The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused.
Whatever has associated itself with the arousal and activity of our
better nature. Hare.

AROUSE
A*rouse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aroused; p. pr. & vb. n. Arousing.]
Etym: [Pref. a- + rouse.]

Defn: To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put in
motion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one from
sleep; to arouse the dormant faculties.
Grasping his spear, forth issued to arouse His brother, mighty
sovereign on the host. Cowper.
No suspicion was aroused. Merivale.

AROW
A*row", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + row.]

Defn: In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order. Shak.
And twenty, rank in rank, they rode arow. Dryden.

AROYNT
A*roynt", interj.

Defn: See Aroint.

ARPEGGIO
Ar*peg"gio, n. Etym: [It., fr. arpeggiare to play on the harp, fr.
arpa harp.] (Mus.)

Defn: The production of the tones of a chord in rapid succession, as
in playing the harp, and not simultaneously; a strain thus played.

ARPENT; ARPEN
Ar"pent, Ar"pen, n. Etym: [F. arpent, fr. L. arepennis, arapennis.
According to Columella, a Gallic word for a measure equiv. to half a
Roman jugerum.]

Defn: Formerly, a measure of land in France, varying in different
parts of the country. The arpent of Paris was 4,088 sq. yards, or
nearly five sixths of an English acre. The woodland arpent was about
1 acre, 1 rood, 1 perch, English.

ARPENTATOR
Ar`pen*ta"tor, n. Etym: [See Arpent.]

Defn: The Anglicized form of the French arpenteur, a land surveyor.
[R.]

ARPINE
Ar"pine, n.

Defn: An arpent. [Obs.] Webster (1623).

ARQUATED
Ar"qua*ted, a.

Defn: Shaped like a bow; arcuate; curved. [R.]

ARQUEBUS; ARQUEBUSE
Ar"que*bus, Ar"que*buse, n. Etym: [F. arquebuse, OF. harquebuse, fr.
D. haak-bus; cf. G. hakenbüchse a gun with a hook. See Hagbut.]

Defn: A sort of hand gun or firearm a contrivance answering to a
trigger, by which the burning match was applied. The musket was a
later invention. [Written also harquebus.]

ARQUEBUSADE
Ar`que*bus*ade", n. Etym: [F. arquebusade shot of an arquebus; eau
d'arquebusade a vulnerary for gunshot wounds.]

1. The shot of an arquebus. Ash.

2. A distilled water from a variety of aromatic plants, as rosemary,
millefoil, etc.; -- originally used as a vulnerary in gunshot wounds.
Parr.

ARQUEBUSIER
Ar`que*bus*ier, n. Etym: [F. arquebusier.]

Defn: A soldier armed with an arquebus.
Soldiers armed with guns, of whatsoever sort or denomination, appear
to have been called arquebusiers. E. Lodge.

ARQUIFOUX
Ar"qui*foux, n.

Defn: Same as Alquifou.

ARRACH
Ar"rach, n.

Defn: See Orach.

ARRACK
Ar"rack, n. Etym: [Ar. araq sweat, juice, spirituous liquor, fr.
araqa to sweat. Cf. Rack arrack.]

Defn: A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardent
spirits. Arrack is often distilled from a fermented mixture of rice,
molasses, and palm wine of the cocoanut tree or the date palm, etc.

ARRAGONITE
Ar*rag"o*nite, n.

Defn: See Aragonite.

ARRAIGN
Ar*raign", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arraigned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arraigning.] Etym: [OE. arainen, arenen, OF. aragnier, aranier,
araisnier, F. arraisonner, fr. LL. arrationare to address to call
before court; L. ad + ratio reason, reasoning, LL. cause, judgment.
See Reason.]

1. (Law)

Defn: To call or set as a prisoner at the bar of a court to answer to
the matter charged in an indictment or complaint. Blackstone.

2. To call to account, or accuse, before the bar of reason, taste, or
any other tribunal.
They will not arraign you for want of knowledge. Dryden.
It is not arrogance, but timidity, of which the Christian body should
now be arraigned by the world. I. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To accuse; impeach; charge; censure; criminate; indict; denounce.
See Accuse.

ARRAIGN
Ar*raign", n.

Defn: Arraignment; as, the clerk of the arraigns. Blackstone.
Macaulay.

ARRAIGN
Ar*raign", v. t. Etym: [From OF. aramier, fr. LL. adhramire.] (Old
Eng. Law)

Defn: To appeal to; to demand; as, to arraign an assize of novel
disseizin.

ARRAIGNER
Ar*raign"er, n.

Defn: One who arraigns. Coleridge.

ARRAIGNMENT
Ar*raign"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. arraynement, aresnement.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The act of arraigning, or the state of being arraigned; the act
of calling and setting a prisoner before a court to answer to an
indictment or complaint.

2. A calling to an account to faults; accusation.
In the sixth satire, which seems only an Arraignment of the whole
sex, there is a latent admonition. Dryden.

ARRAIMENT; ARRAYMENT
Ar*rai"ment, Ar*ray"ment, n. Etym: [From Array, v. t.]

Defn: Clothes; raiment. [Obs.]

ARRANGE
Ar*range", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arranged; p. pr. & vb. n. Arranging.]
Etym: [OE. arayngen, OF. arengier, F. arranger, fr. a (L. ad) + OF.
rengier, rangier, F. ranger. See Range, v. t.]

1. To put in proper order; to dispose (persons, or parts) in the
manner intended, or best suited for the purpose; as, troops arranged
for battle.
So [they] came to the market place, and there he arranged his men in
the streets. Berners.
[They] were beginning to arrange their hampers. Boswell.
A mechanism previously arranged. Paley.

2. To adjust or settle; to prepare; to determine; as, to arrange the
preliminaries of an undertaking.

Syn.
 -- Adjust; adapt; range; dispose; classify.

ARRANGEMENT
Ar*range"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. arrangement.]

1. The act of arranging or putting in an orderly condition; the state
of being arranged or put in order; disposition in suitable form.

2. The manner or result of arranging; system of parts disposed in due
order; regular and systematic classification; as, arrangement of
one's dress; the Linnæan arrangement of plants.

3. Preparatory proceeding or measure; preparation; as, we have made
arrangement for receiving company.

4. Settlement; adjustment by agreement; as, the parties have made an
arrangement between themselves concerning their disputes; a
satisfactory arrangement.

5. (Mus.)
(a) The adaptation of a composition to voices or instruments for
which it was not originally written.
(b) A piece so adapted; a transcription; as, a pianoforte arrangement
of Beethoven's symphonies; an orchestral arrangement of a song, an
opera, or the like.

ARRANGER
Ar*ran"ger, n.

Defn: One who arranges. Burke.

ARRANT
Ar"rant, a. Etym: [OE. erraunt, errant, errand, equiv. to E. errant
wandering, which was first applied to vagabonds, as an errant rogue,
an errant thief, and hence passed gradually into its present and
worse sense. See Errant.]

Defn: Notoriously or preëminently bad; thorough or downright, in a
bad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward.
I discover an arrant laziness in my soul. Fuller.

2. Thorough or downright, in a good sense. [Obs.]
An arrant honest woman. Burton.

ARRANTLY
Ar"rant*ly, adv.

Defn: Notoriously, in an ill sense; infamously; impudently;
shamefully. L'Estrange.

ARRAS
Ar"ras, n. Etym: [From Arras the capital of Artois, in the French
Netherlands.]

Defn: Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen or
hangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures.
Stateliest couches, with rich arras spread. Cowper.
Behind the arras I'll convey myself. Shak.

ARRAS
Ar"ras, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with an arras. Chapman.

ARRASENE
Ar`ras*ene", n. Etym: [From Arras.]

Defn: A material of wool or silk used for working the figures in
embroidery.

ARRASTRE
Ar*ras"tre, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A rude apparatus for pulverizing ores, esp. those containing
free gold.

ARRASWISE; ARRASWAYS
Ar"ras*wise`, Ar"ras*ways`, adv. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of
arriswise. See Arris.]

Defn: Placed in such a position as to exhibit the top and two sides,
the corner being in front; -- said of a rectangular form. Encyc.
Brit. Cussans.

ARRAUGHT
Ar*raught". Etym: [The past tense of an old v. areach or arreach. Cf.
Reach, obs. pret. raught.]

Defn: Obtained; seized. Spenser.

ARRAY
Ar*ray", n. Etym: [OE. arai, arrai, OF. arrai, arrei, arroi, order,
arrangement, dress, F. arroi; a (L. ad) + OF. rai, rei, roi, order,
arrangement, fr. G. or Scand.; cf. Goth. raidjan, garaidjan, to
arrange, MHG. gereiten, Icel. reithi rigging, harness; akin to E.
ready. Cf. Ready, Greith, Curry.]

1. Order; a regular and imposing arrangement; disposition in regular
lines; hence, order of battle; as, drawn up in battle array.
Wedged together in the closest array. Gibbon.

2. The whole body of persons thus placed in order; an orderly
collection; hence, a body of soldiers.
A gallant array of nobles and cavaliers. Prescott.

3. An imposing series of things.
Their long array of sapphire and of gold. Byron.

4. Dress; garments disposed in order upon the person; rich or
beautiful apparel. Dryden.

5. (Law)
(a) A ranking or setting forth in order, by the proper officer, of a
jury as impaneled in a cause.
(b) The panel itself.
(c) The whole body of jurors summoned to attend the court. To
challenge the array (Law), to except to the whole panel. Cowell.
Tomlins. Blount.
 -- Commission of array (Eng. Hist.), a commission given by the
prince to officers in every county, to muster and array the
inhabitants, or see them in a condition for war. Blackstone.

ARRAY
Ar*ray", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arrayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Arraying.]
Etym: [OE. araien, arraien, fr. OE. arraier, arreier, arreer,
arroier, fr. arrai. See Array, n.]

1. To place or dispose in order, as troops for battle; to marshal.
By torch and trumpet fast arrayed, Each horseman drew his battle
blade. Campbell.
These doubts will be arrayed before their minds. Farrar.

2. To deck or dress; to adorn with dress; to cloth to envelop; --
applied esp. to dress of a splendid kind.
Pharaoh . . . arrayed him in vestures of fine linen. Gen. xli.
In gelid caves with horrid gloom arrayed. Trumbull.

3. (Law)

Defn: To set in order, as a jury, for the trial of a cause; that is,
to call them man by man. Blackstone. To array a panel, to set forth
in order the men that are impaneled. Cowell. Tomlins.

Syn.
 -- To draw up; arrange; dispose; set in order.

ARRAYER
Ar*ray"er, n.

Defn: One who arrays. In some early English statutes, applied to an
officer who had care of the soldiers' armor, and who saw them duly
accoutered.

ARREAR
Ar*rear", adv. Etym: [OE. arere, OF. arere, ariere, F. arrière, fr.
L. ad + retro backward. See Rear.]

Defn: To or in the rear; behind; backwards. [Obs.] Spenser.

ARREAR
Ar*rear", n.

Defn: That which is behind in payment, or which remains unpaid,
though due; esp. a remainder, or balance which remains due when some
part has been paid; arrearage; -- commonly used in the plural, as,
arrears of rent, wages, or taxes. Locke.
For much I dread due payment by the Greeks Of yesterday's arrear.
Cowper.
I have a large arrear of letters to write. J. D. Forbes.
In arrear or In arrears, behind; backward; behindhand; in debt.

ARREARAGE
Ar*rear"age, n. Etym: [F. arrérage, fr. arrière, OF. arere. See
Arrear.]

Defn: That which remains unpaid and overdue, after payment of a part;
arrears.
The old arrearages . . . being defrayed. Howell.

ARRECT; ARRECTED
Ar*rect", Ar*rect"ed, a. Etym: [L. arrectus, p. p. of arrigere to
raise, erect; ad + regere to lead straight, to direct.]

1. Lifted up; raised; erect.

2. Attentive, as a person listening. [Obs.]
God speaks not the idle and unconcerned hearer, but to the vigilant
and arrect. Smalridge.

ARRECT
Ar*rect", v. t.

1. To direct. [Obs.]
My supplication to you I arrect. Skelton.

2. Etym: [See Aret.]

Defn: To impute. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

ARRECTARY
Ar*rect"a*ry, n. Etym: [L. arrectarius, fr. arrigere o set up.]

Defn: An upright beam. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ARRENOTOKOUS
Ar`re*not"o*kous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing males from unfertilized eggs, as certain wasps and
bees.

ARRENTATION
Ar`ren*ta"tion. Etym: [Cf. F. arrenter to give or take as rent. See
Arendator.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A letting or renting, esp. a license to inclose land in a
forest with a low hedge and a ditch, under a yearly rent.

ARREPTION
Ar*rep"tion, n. Etym: [L. arripere, arreptum, to seize, snatch; ad +
rapere to snatch. See Rapacious.]

Defn: The act of taking away. [Obs.] "This arreption was sudden." Bp.
Hall.

ARREPTITIOUS
Ar`rep*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. arreptitius.]

Defn: Snatched away; seized or possessed, as a demoniac; raving; mad;
crack-brained. [Obs.]
Odd, arreptitious, frantic extravagances. Howell.

ARREST
Ar*rest", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arrested; p. pr. & vb. n. Arresting.]
Etym: [OE. aresten, OF. arester, F. arrêter, fr. LL. arrestare; L. ad
+ restare to remain, stop; re + stare to stand. See Rest remainder.]

1. To stop; to check or hinder the motion or action of; as, to arrest
the current of a river; to arrest the senses.
Nor could her virtues the relentless hand Of Death arrest. Philips.

2. (Law)

Defn: To take, seize, or apprehend by authority of law; as, to arrest
one for debt, or for a crime.

Note: After his word Shakespeare uses of ("I arrest thee of high
treason") or on; the modern usage is for.

3. To seize on and fix; to hold; to catch; as, to arrest the eyes or
attention. Buckminster.

4. To rest or fasten; to fix; to concentrate. [Obs.]
We may arrest our thoughts upon the divine mercies. Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- To obstruct; delay; detain; check; hinder; stop; apprehend;
seize; lay hold of.

ARREST
Ar*rest", v. i.

Defn: To tarry; to rest. [Obs.] Spenser.

ARREST
Ar*rest", n. Etym: [OE. arest, arrest, OF. arest, F. arrêt, fr.
arester. See Arrest, v. t., Arr.]

1. The act of stopping, or restraining from further motion, etc.;
stoppage; hindrance; restraint; as, an arrest of development.
As the arrest of the air showeth. Bacon.

2. (Law)

Defn: The taking or apprehending of a person by authority of law;
legal restraint; custody. Also, a decree, mandate, or warrant.
William . . . ordered him to be put under arrest. Macaulay.
[Our brother Norway] sends out arrests On Fortinbras; which he, in
brief, obeys. Shak.

Note: An arrest may be made by seizing or touching the body; but it
is sufficient in the party be within the power of the officer and
submit to the arrest. In Admiralty law, and in old English practice,
the term is applied to the seizure of property.

3. Any seizure by power, physical or moral.
The sad stories of fire from heaven, the burning of his sheep, etc.,
. . . were sad arrests to his troubled spirit. Jer. Taylor.

4. (Far.)

Defn: A scurfiness of the back part of the hind leg of a horse; --
also named rat-tails. White. Arrest of judgment (Law), the staying or
stopping of a judgment, after verdict, for legal cause. The motion
for this purpose is called a motion in arrest of judgment.

ARRESTATION
Ar`res*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. arrestation, LL. arrestatio.]

Defn: Arrest. [R.]
The arrestation of the English resident in France was decreed by the
National Convention. H. M. Williams.

ARRESTEE
Ar`res*tee", n. Etym: [See Arrest, v.] (Scots Law)

Defn: The person in whose hands is the property attached by
arrestment.

ARRESTER
Ar*rest"er, n.

1. One who arrests.

2. (Scots Law)

Defn: The person at whose suit an arrestment is made. [Also written
arrestor.]

ARRESTING
Ar*rest"ing, a.

Defn: Striking; attracting attention; impressive.
This most solemn and arresting occurrence. J. H. Newman.

ARRESTIVE
Ar*rest"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to arrest. McCosh.

ARRESTMENT
Ar*rest"ment, n. Etym: [OF. arrestement.]

1. (Scots Law)

Defn: The arrest of a person, or the seizure of his effects; esp., a
process by which money or movables in the possession of a third party
are attached.

2. A stoppage or check. Darwin.

ARRET
Ar*rêt, n. Etym: [F. See Arrest, n.] (F. Law)
(a) A judgment, decision, or decree of a court or high tribunal;
also, a decree of a sovereign.
(b) An arrest; a legal seizure.

ARRET
Ar*ret", v. t.

Defn: Same as Aret. [Obs.] Spenser.

ARRHA
Ar"rha, n.; pl. Arrhæ (#). [L. Cf. Earnest.] (Law)

Defn: Money or other valuable thing given to evidence a contract; a
pledge or earnest.

ARRHAPHOSTIC
Ar`rha*phos"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Seamless. [R.]

ARRHIZAL; ARRHIZOUS
Ar*rhi"zal, Ar*rhi"zous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of a true root, as a parasitical plant.

ARRHYTHMIC; ARRHYTHMOUS
Ar*rhyth"mic, Ar*rhyth"mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Being without rhythm or regularity, as the pulse.

ARRHYTMY
Ar"rhyt*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Want of rhythm. [R.]

ARRIDE
Ar*ride", v. t. Etym: [L. arridere; ad + ridere to laugh.]

Defn: To please; to gratify. [Archaic] B. Jonson.
Above all thy rarities, old Oxenford, what do most arride and solace
me are thy repositories of moldering learning. Lamb.

ARRIERE
Ar*riere", n. Etym: [F. arrière. See Arrear.]

Defn: "That which is behind"; the rear; -- chiefly used as an
adjective in the sense of behind, rear, subordinate. Arriere fee,
Arriere fief, a fee or fief dependent on a superior fee, or a fee
held of a feudatory.
 -- Arriere vassal, the vassal of a vassal.

ARRIERE-BAN
Ar*riere"-ban`, n. Etym: [F., fr. OE. arban, heriban, fr. OHG.
hariban, heriban, G. heerbann, the calling together of an army; OHG.
heri an army + ban a public call or order. The French have
misunderstood their old word, and have changed it into arrière-ban,
though arrière has no connection with its proper meaning. See Ban,
Abandon.]

Defn: A proclamation, as of the French kings, calling not only their
immediate feudatories, but the vassals of these feudatories, to take
the field for war; also, the body of vassals called or liable to be
called to arms, as in ancient France.

ARRIS
Ar"ris, n. Etym: [OF. areste, F. arête, fr. L. arista the top or
beard of an ear of grain, the bone of a fish.] (Arch.)

Defn: The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meeting
each other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to the
edges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate the
flutings in a Doric column. P. Cyc. Arris fillet, a triangular piece
of wood used to raise the slates of a roof against a chimney or wall,
to throw off the rain. Gwilt.
 -- Arris gutter, a gutter of a V form fixed to the eaves of a
building. Gwilt.

ARRISH
Ar"rish, n. Etym: [See Eddish.]

Defn: The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish. [Eng.]
[Written also arish, ersh, etc.]
The moment we entered the stubble or arrish. Blackw. Mag.

ARRISWISE
Ar"ris*wise`, adv.

Defn: Diagonally laid, as tiles; ridgewise.

ARRIVAL
Ar*riv"al, n. Etym: [From Arrive.]

1. The act of arriving, or coming; the act of reaching a place from a
distance, whether by water (as in its original sense) or by land.
Our watchmen from the towers, with longing eyes, Expect his swift
arrival. Dryden.

2. The attainment or reaching of any object, by effort, or in natural
course; as, our arrival at this conclusion was wholly unexpected.

3. The person or thing arriving or which has arrived; as, news
brought by the last arrival.
Another arrival still more important was speedily announced.
Macaulay.

4. An approach. [Obs.]
The house has a corner arrival. H. Walpole.

ARRIVANCE
Ar*riv"ance, n.

Defn: Arrival. [Obs.] Shak.

ARRIVE
Ar*rive", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Arrived; p. pr. & vb. n. Arriving.]
Etym: [OE. ariven to arrive, land, OF. ariver, F. arriver, fr. LL.
arripare, adripare, to come to shore; L. ad + ripa the shore or
sloping bank of a river. Cf. Riparian.]

1. To come to the shore or bank. In present usage: To come in
progress by water, or by traveling on land; to reach by water or by
land; -- followed by at (formerly sometimes by to), also by in and
from. "Arrived in Padua." Shak.
[Æneas] sailing with a fleet from Sicily, arrived . . . and landed in
the country of Laurentum. Holland.
There was no outbreak till the regiment arrived at Ipswich. Macaulay.

2. To reach a point by progressive motion; to gain or compass an
object by effort, practice, study, inquiry, reasoning, or experiment.
To arrive at, or attain to.
When he arrived at manhood. Rogers.
We arrive at knowledge of a law of nature by the generalization of
facts. McCosh.
If at great things thou wouldst arrive. Milton.

3. To come; said of time; as, the time arrived.

4. To happen or occur. [Archaic]
Happy! to whom this glorious death arrives. Waller.

ARRIVE
Ar*rive", v. t.

1. To bring to shore. [Obs.]
And made the sea-trod ship arrive them. Chapman.

2. To reach; to come to. [Archaic]
Ere he arrive the happy isle. Milton.
Ere we could arrive the point proposed. Shak.
Arrive at last the blessed goal. Tennyson.

ARRIVE
Ar*rive", n.

Defn: Arrival. [Obs.] Chaucer.
How should I joy of thy arrive to hear! Drayton.

ARRIVER
Ar*riv"er, n.

Defn: One who arrives.

ARROBA
Ar*ro"ba, n. Etym: [Sp. and Pg., from Ar. arrub, ar-rubu, a fourth
part.]

1. A Spanish weight used in Mexico and South America = 25.36 lbs.
avoir.; also, an old Portuguese weight, used in Brazil = 32.38 lbs.
avoir.

2. A Spanish liquid measure for wine = 3.54 imp. gallons, and for oil
= 2.78 imp. gallons.

ARROGANCE
Ar"ro*gance, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. arrogantia, fr. arrogans. See
Arrogant.]

Defn: The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in an
overbearing manner; that species of pride which consists in
exorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power, or which
exalts the worth or importance of the person to an undue degree;
proud contempt of others; lordliness; haughtiness; self-assumption;
presumption.
I hate not you for her proud arrogance. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Haughtiness; hauteur; assumption; lordliness; presumption; pride;
disdain; insolence; conceit; conceitedness. See Haughtiness.

ARROGANCY
Ar"ro*gan*cy, n.

Defn: Arrogance. Shak.

ARROGANT
Ar"ro*gant, a. Etym: [F. arrogant, L. arrogans, p. pr. of arrogare.
See Arrogate.]

1. Making, or having the disposition to make, exorbitant claims of
rank or estimation; giving one's self an undue degree of importance;
assuming; haughty; -- applied to persons.
Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate. Shak.

2. Containing arrogance; marked with arrogance; proceeding from undue
claims or self-importance; -- applied to things; as, arrogant
pretensions or behavior.

Syn.
 -- Magisterial; lordly; proud; assuming; overbearing; presumptuous;
haughty. See Magisterial.

ARROGANTLY
Ar"ro*gant*ly, adv.

Defn: In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance.

ARROGANTNESS
Ar"ro*gant*ness, n.

Defn: Arrogance. [R.]

ARROGATE
Ar"ro*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arrogated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arrogating.] Etym: [L. arrogatus, p. p. of adrogare, arrogare, to
ask, appropriate to one's self; ad + rogare to ask. See Rogation.]

Defn: To assume, or claim as one's own, unduly, proudly, or
presumptuously; to make undue claims to, from vanity or baseless
pretensions to right or merit; as, the pope arrogated dominion over
kings.
He arrogated to himself the right of deciding dogmatically what was
orthodox doctrine. Macaulay.

ARROGATION
Ar`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. arrogatio, fr. arrogare. Cf. Adrogation.]

1. The act of arrogating, or making exorbitant claims; the act of
taking more than one is justly entitled to. Hall.

2. (Civ. Law)

Defn: Adoption of a person of full age.

ARROGATIVE
Ar"ro*ga*tive, a.

Defn: Making undue claims and pretension; prone to arrogance. [R.]
Dr. H. More.

ARRONDISSEMENT
Ar`ron`disse`ment", n. Etym: [F., fr. arrondir to make round; ad +
rond round, L. rotundus.]

Defn: A subdivision of a department. [France]

Note: The territory of France, since the revolution, has been divided
into departments, those into arrondissements, those into cantons, and
the latter into communes.

ARROSE
Ar*rose", v. t. Etym: [F. arroser.]

Defn: To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten. [Obs.]
The blissful dew of heaven does arrose you. Two N. Kins.

ARROSION
Ar*ro"sion, n. Etym: [L. arrodere, arrosum, to gnaw: cf. F.
arrosion.]

Defn: A gnawing. [Obs.] Bailey.

ARROW
Ar"row, n. Etym: [OE. arewe, AS. arewe, earh; akin to Icel. ör,
örvar, Goth. arhwazna, and perh. L. arcus bow. Cf. Arc.]

Defn: A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usually
feathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow. Broad arrow. (a) An
arrow with a broad head. (b) A mark placed upon British ordnance and
government stores, which bears a rude resemblance to a broad
arrowhead.

ARROW GRASS
Ar"row grass`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An herbaceous grasslike plant (Triglochin palustre, and other
species) with pods opening so as to suggest barbed arrowheads.

ARROWHEAD
Ar"row*head`, n.

1. The head of an arrow.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An aquatic plant of the genus Sagittaria, esp. S. sagittifolia,
-- named from the shape of the leaves.

ARROWHEADED
Ar"row*head`ed, a.

Defn: Shaped like the head of an arow; cuneiform. Arrowheaded
characters, characters the elements of which consist of strokes
resembling arrowheads, nailheads, or wedges; -- hence called also
nail-headed, wedge-formed, cuneiform, or cuneatic characters; the
oldest written characters used in the country about the Tigris and
Euphrates, and subsequently in Persia, and abounding among the ruins
of Persepolis, Nineveh, and Babylon. See Cuneiform.

ARROWROOT
Ar"row*root`, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A west Indian plant of the genus Maranta, esp. M. arundinacea,
now cultivated in many hot countries. It said that the Indians used
the roots to neutralize the venom in wounds made by poisoned arrows.

2. A nutritive starch obtained from the rootstocks of Maranta
arundinacea, and used as food, esp. for children an invalids; also, a
similar starch obtained from other plants, as various species of
Maranta and Curcuma.

ARROWWOOD
Ar"row*wood`, n.

Defn: A shrub (Viburnum dentatum) growing in damp woods and thickets;
-- so called from the long, straight, slender shoots.

ARROWWORM
Ar"row*worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A peculiar transparent worm of the genus Sagitta, living at the
surface of the sea. See Sagitta.

ARROWY
Ar"row*y, a.

1. Consisting of arrows.
How quick they wheeled, and flying, behind them shot Sharp sleet of
arrowy showers. Milton.

2. Formed or moving like, or in any respect resembling, an arrow;
swift; darting; piercing. "His arrowy tongue." Cowper.
By the blue rushing of the arrowy Rhone. Byron.
With arrowy vitalities, vivacities, and ingenuities. Carlyle.

ARROYO
Ar*roy"o, n.; pl Arroyos. Etym: [Sp., fr. LL. arrogium; cf. Gr.

1. A water course; a rivulet.

2. The dry bed of a small stream. [Western U. S.]

ARSCHIN
Ar"schin, n.

Defn: See Arshine.

ARSE
Arse, n. Etym: [AS. ears; ærs; akin to OHG. ars. G. arsch, D. aars,
Sw. ars, Dan. arts, Gr.

Defn: The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; the
fundament; the bottom.

ARSENAL
Ar"se*nal, n. Etym: [Sp. & F. arsenal arsenal, dockyard, or It.
arzanale, arsenale (cf. It. & darsena dock); all fr. Ar. dar house of
industry or fabrication; dar house + art, industry.]

Defn: A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufacture
and storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land or
naval service.

ARSENATE
Ar"se*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of arsenic acid.

ARSENIATE
Ar*se"ni*ate, n.

Defn: See Arsenate. [R.]

ARSENIC
Ar"se*nic, n. Etym: [L. arsenicum, Gr. zernikh: cf. F. arsenic.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: One of the elements, a solid substance resembling a metal in
its physical properties, but in its chemical relations ranking with
the nonmetals. It is of a steel-gray color and brilliant luster,
though usually dull from tarnish. It is very brittle, and sublimes at
356º Fahrenheit. It is sometimes found native, but usually combined
with silver, cobalt, nickel, iron, antimony, or sulphur. Orpiment and
realgar are two of its sulphur compounds, the first of which is the
true arsenticum of the ancients. The element and its compounds are
active poisons. Specific gravity from 5.7 to 5.9. Atomic weight.
Symbol As.

2. (Com.)

Defn: Arsenious oxide or arsenious anhydride; -- called also
arsenious acid, white arsenic, and ratsbane.

ARSENIC
Ar*sen"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic; -- said of those
compounds of arsenic in which this element has its highest
equivalence; as, arsenic acid.

ARSENICAL
Ar*sen"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenical
vapor; arsenical wall papers. Arsenical silver, an ore of silver
containing arsenic.

ARSENICATE
Ar*sen"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arsenicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arsenicating.]

Defn: To combine with arsenic; to treat or impregnate with arsenic.

ARSENICISM
Ar*sen"i*cism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A diseased condition produced by slow poisoning with arsenic.

ARSENIDE
Ar"sen*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element or
radical; -- formerly called arseniuret.

ARSENIFEROUS
Ar`sen*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Arsenic + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or producing arsenic.

ARSENIOUS
Ar*se"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. arsénieux.]

1. Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, arsenic; as,
arsenious powder or glass.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic, when having an
equivalence next lower than the highest; as, arsenious acid.

ARSENITE
Ar"sen*ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. arsénite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the union of arsenious acid with a base.

ARSENIURET
Ar`se*ni"u*ret, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Arsenide.

ARSENIURETED
Ar`se*ni"u*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances or
radicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen. [Also spelt arseniuretted.]

ARSENOPYRITE
Ar`sen*o*pyr"ite, n. Etym: [Arsenic + pyrite.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a tin-white color and metallic luster, containing
arsenic, sulphur, and iron; -- also called arsenical pyrites and
mispickel.

ARSESMART
Arse"smart, n.

Defn: Smartweed; water pepper. Dr. Prior.

ARSHINE
Ar"shine, n. Etym: [Russ. arshin, of Turkish-Tartar origin; Turk.
arshin, arshun, ell, yard.]

Defn: A Russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches.

ARSINE
Ar"sine, n. Etym: [From Arsenic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless and
exceedingly poisonous gas, having and odor like garlic; arseniureted
hydrogen.

ARSIS
Ar"sis, n. Etym: [L. arsis, Gr. lifting of the hand in beating time,
and hence the unaccented part of the rhythm.]

1. (Pros.)
(a) That part of a foot where the ictus is put, or which is
distinguished from the rest (known as the thesis) of the foot by a
greater stress of voice. Hermann.
(b) That elevation of voice now called metrical accentuation, or the
rhythmic accent.

Note: It is uncertain whether the arsis originally consisted in a
higher musical tone, greater volume, or longer duration of sound, or
in all combined.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The elevation of the hand, or that part of the bar at which it
is raised, in beating time; the weak or unaccented part of the bar; -
- opposed to thesis. Moore.

ARSMETRIKE
Ars`met"rike, n. Etym: [An erroneous form of arithmetic, as if from
L. ars metrica the measuring art.]

Defn: Arithmetic. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARSON
Ar"son, n. Etym: [OF. arson, arsun, fr. L. ardere, arsum, to burn.]
(Law)

Defn: The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse of
another man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious and
voluntary firing of a building or ship. Wharton.

Note: The definition of this crime is varied by statues in different
countries and states. The English law of arson has been considerably
modified in the United States; in some of the States it has been
materially enlarged, while in others, various degrees of arson have
been established, with corresponding punishment. Burrill.

ART
Art.

Defn: The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, of
the substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the plural
are, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending of
the second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn or
poetical style.

ART
Art, n. Etym: [F. art, L. ars, artis, orig., skill in joining or
fitting; prob. akin to E. arm, aristocrat, article.]

1. The employment of means to accomplish some desired end; the
adaptation of things in the natural world to the uses of life; the
application of knowledge or power to practical purposes.
Blest with each grace of nature and of art. Pope.

2. A system of rules serving to facilitate the performance of certain
actions; a system of principles and rules for attaining a desired
end; method of doing well some special work; -- often
contradistinguished from science or speculative principles; as, the
art of building or engraving; the art of war; the art of navigation.
Science is systematized knowledge . . . Art is knowledge made
efficient by skill. J. F. Genung.

3. The systematic application of knowledge or skill in effecting a
desired result. Also, an occupation or business requiring such
knowledge or skill.
The fishermen can't employ their art with so much success in so
troubled a sea. Addison.

4. The application of skill to the production of the beautiful by
imitation or design, or an occupation in which skill is so employed,
as in painting and sculpture; one of the fine arts; as, he prefers
art to literature.

5. pl.

Defn: Those branches of learning which are taught in the academical
course of colleges; as, master of arts.
In fearless youth we tempt the heights of arts. Pope.
Four years spent in the arts (as they are called in colleges) is,
perhaps, laying too laborious a foundation. Goldsmith.

6. Learning; study; applied knowledge, science, or letters. [Archaic]
So vast is art, so narrow human wit. Pope.

7. Skill, dexterity, or the power of performing certain actions,
asquired by experience, study, or observation; knack; a, a man has
the art of managing his business to advantage.

8. Skillful plan; device.
They employed every art to soothe . . . the discontented warriors.
Macaulay.

9. Cunning; artifice; craft.
Madam, I swear I use no art at all. Shak.
Animals practice art when opposed to their superiors in strength.
Crabb.

10
10

Defn: To black art; magic. [Obs.] Shak. Art and part (Scots Law),
share or concern by aiding and abetting a criminal in the
perpetration of a crime, whether by advice or by assistance in the
execution; complicity.

Note: The arts are divided into various classes. The useful,
mechanical, or industrial arts are those in which the hands and body
are concerned than the mind; as in making clothes and utensils. These
are called trades. The fine arts are those which have primarily to do
with imagination taste, and are applied to the production of what is
beautiful. They include poetry, music, painting, engraving,
sculpture, and architecture; but the term is often confined to
painting, sculpture, and architecture. The liberal arts (artes
liberales, the higher arts, which, among the Romans, only freemen
were permitted to pursue) were, in the Middle Ages, these seven
branches of learning, -- grammar, logic, rhetoric, arithmetic,
geometry, music, and astronomy. In modern times the liberal arts
include the sciences, philosophy, history, etc., which compose the
course of academical or collegiate education. Hence, degrees in the
arts; master and bachelor of arts.
In America, literature and the elegant arts must grow up side by side
with the coarser plants of daily necessity. Irving.

Syn.
 -- Science; literature; aptitude; readiness; skill; dexterity;
adroitness; contrivance; profession; business; trade; calling;
cunning; artifice; duplicity. See Science.

ARTEMIA
Ar*te"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of phyllopod Crustacea found in salt lakes and brines;
the brine shrimp. See Brine shrimp.

ARTEMISIA
Ar`te*mi"si*a, n. Etym: [L. Artemisia, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the plants called mugwort,
southernwood, and wormwood. Of these A. absinthium, or common
wormwood, is well known, and A. tridentata is the sage brush of the
Rocky Mountain region.

ARTERIAC
Ar*te"ri*ac, a. Etym: [L. arteriacus, Gr. Artery.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the windpipe.

ARTERIAL
Ar*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. artériel.]

1. Of or pertaining to an artery, or the arteries; as, arterial
action; the arterial system.

2. Of or pertaining to a main channel (resembling an artery), as a
river, canal, or railroad. Arterial blood, blood which has been
changed and vitalized (arterialized) during passage through the
lungs.

ARTERIALIZATION
Ar*te`ri*al*i*za"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The process of converting venous blood into arterial blood
during its passage through the lungs, oxygen being absorbed and
carbonic acid evolved; -- called also aëration and hematosis.

ARTERIALIZE
Ar*te"ri*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arterialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Arterializing.]

Defn: To transform, as the venous blood, into arterial blood by
exposure to oxygen in the lungs; to make arterial.

ARTERIOGRAPHY
Ar*te`ri*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A systematic description of the arteries.

ARTERIOLE
Ar*te"ri*ole, n. Etym: [NL. arteriola, dim. of L. arteria: cf. F.
artériole.]

Defn: A small artery.

ARTERIOLOGY
Ar*te`ri*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of arteries.

ARTERIOSCLEROSIS
Ar*te`ri*o*scle*ro"sis (är*te`ri*o*skle*ro"sis), n. [Gr. 'arthri`a
artery + sclerosis.] (Med.)

Defn: Abnormal thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries,
esp. of the intima, occurring mostly in old age. --
Ar*te`ri*o*scle*rot"ic (#), a.

ARTERIOTOMY
Ar*te`ri*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [L. arteriotomia, Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: The opening of an artery, esp. for bloodletting.

2. That part of anatomy which treats of the dissection of the
arteries.

ARTERITIS
Ar`te*ri"tis, n. Etym: [Artery + -etis.]

Defn: Inflammation of an artery or arteries. Dunglison.

ARTERY
Ar"ter*y, n.; pl. Artplwies. Etym: [L. arteria windpipe, artery, Gr.

1. The trachea or windpipe. [Obs.] "Under the artery, or windpipe, is
the mouth of the stomach." Holland.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the vessels or tubes which carry either venous or
arterial blood from the heart. They have tricker and more muscular
walls than veins, and are connected with them by capillaries.

Note: In man and other mammals, the arteries which contain
arterialized blood receive it from the left ventricle of the heart
through the aorta. See Aorta. The pulmonary artery conveys the venous
blood from the right ventricle to the lungs, whence the arterialized
blood is returned through the pulmonary veins.

3. Hence: Any continuous or ramified channel of communication; as,
arteries of trade or commerce.

ARTESIAN
Ar*te"sian, a. Etym: [F. artésien, fr. Artois in France, where many
such wells have been made since the middle of the last century.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Artois (anciently called Artesium), in
France. Artesian wells, wells made by boring into the earth till the
instrument reaches water, which, from internal pressure, flows
spontaneously like a fountain. They are usually of small diameter and
often of great depth.

ARTFUL
Art"ful, a. Etym: [From Art.]

1. Performed with, or characterized by, art or skill. [Archaic]
"Artful strains." "Artful terms." Milton.

2. Artificial; imitative. Addison.

3. Using or exhibiting much art, skill, or contrivance; dexterous;
skillful.
He [was] too artful a writer to set down events in exact historical
order. Dryden.

4. Cunning; disposed to cunning indirectness of dealing; crafty; as,
an artful boy. [The usual sense.]
Artful in speech, in action, and in mind. Pope.
The artful revenge of various animals. Darwin.

Syn.
 -- Cunning; skillful; adroit; dexterous; crafty; tricky; deceitful;
designing. See Cunning.

ARTFULLY
Art"ful*ly, adv.

Defn: In an artful manner; with art or cunning; skillfully;
dexterously; craftily.

ARTFULNESS
Art"ful*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being artful; art; cunning; craft.

ARTHEN
Ar"then, a.

Defn: Same as Earthen. [Obs.] "An arthen pot." Holland.

ARTHRITIC; ARTHRITICAL
Ar*thrit"ic, Ar*thrit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. arthriticus, Gr.
Arthritis.]

1. Pertaining to the joints. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. Of or pertaining to arthritis; gouty. Cowper.

ARTHRITIS
Ar*thri"tis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Any inflammation of the joints, particularly the gout.

ARTHROCHONDRITIS
Ar`thro*chon*dri"tis, n. [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: Chondritis of a joint.

ARTHRODERM
Ar"thro*derm, n. Etym: [Gr. 'derm.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The external covering of an Arthropod.

ARTHRODESIS
Ar*throd"e*sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  joint +  a binding together.]
(Surg.)

Defn: Surgical fixation of joints.

ARTHRODIA
Ar*thro"di*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A form of diarthrodial articulation in which the articular
surfaces are nearly flat, so that they form only an imperfect ball
and socket.

ARTHRODIAL; ARTHRODIC
Ar*thro"di*al, Ar*throd"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to arthrodia.

ARTHRODYNIA
Ar`thro*dyn"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An affection characterized by pain in or about a joint, not
dependent upon structural disease.

ARTHRODYNIC
Ar`thro*dyn"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to arthrodynia, or pain in the joints; rheumatic.

ARTHROGASTRA
Ar`thro*gas"tra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of the Arachnida, having the abdomen annulated,
including the scorpions, harvestmen, etc.; pedipalpi.

ARTHROGRAPHY
Ar*throg"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The description of joints.

ARTHROLOGY
Ar*throl"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of joints.

ARTHROMERE
Ar"thro*mere, n. Etym: [Gr. -mere.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the body segments of Arthropods. See Arthrostraca.
Packard.

ARTHROPATHY
Ar*throp"a*thy, n. [Gr.  joint + , , to suffer.] (Med.)

Defn: Any disease of the joints.

ARTHROPLEURA
Ar`thro*pleu"ra, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The side or limb-bearing portion of an arthromere.

ARTHROPOD
Ar"thro*pod, n (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Arthropoda.

ARTHROPODA
Ar*throp"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large division of Articulata, embracing all those that have
jointed legs. It includes Insects, Arachnida, Pychnogonida, and
Crustacea.
 -- Ar*throp"o*dal, a.

ARTHROPOMATA
Ar`thro*pom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the orders of Branchiopoda. See Branchiopoda.

ARTHROSIS
Ar*thro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Articulation.

ARTHROSPORE
Ar"thro*spore, n. [Gr.  joint + E. spore.] (Bacteriol.)

Defn: A bacterial resting cell, -- formerly considered a spore, but
now known to occur even in endosporous bacteria. -- Ar`thro*spor"ic
(#), Ar*thros"po*rous (#), a.

ARTHROSTRACA
Ar*thros"tra*ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the larger divisions of Crustacea, so called because the
thorax and abdomen are both segmented; Tetradecapoda. It includes the
Amphipoda and Isopoda.

ARTHROTOME
Ar"thro*tome, n. [Gr.  joint +  to cut.] (Surg.)

Defn: A strong scalpel used in the dissection of joints.

ARTHROZOIC
Ar`thro*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Articulata; articulate.

ARTHURIAN
Ar*thu"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to King Arthur or his knights.  J. R. Symonds.

In magnitude, in interest, and as a literary origin, the Arthurian
invention dwarfs all other things in the book.
Saintsbury.

ARTIAD
Ar"ti*ad, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals
the valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder.

ARTICHOKE
Ar"ti*choke, n. Etym: [It. articioc, perh. corrupted fr. the same
word as carciofo; cf. older spellings archiciocco, archicioffo,
carciocco, and Sp. alcachofa, Pg. alcachofra; prob. fr. Ar. al-
harshaf, al-kharsh.] (Bot.)

1. The Cynara scolymus, a plant somewhat resembling a thistle, with a
dilated, imbricated, and prickly involucre. The head (to which the
name is also applied) is composed of numerous oval scales, inclosing
the florets, sitting on a broad receptacle, which, with the fleshy
base of the scales, is much esteemed as an article of food.

2. See Jerusalem artichoke.

ARTICLE
Ar"ti*cle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. articulus, dim. of artus joint, akin
to Gr. ar to join, fit. See Art, n.]

1. A distinct portion of an instrument, discourse, literary work, or
any other writing, consisting of two or more particulars, or treating
of various topics; as, an article in the Constitution. Hence: A
clause in a contract, system of regulations, treaty, or the like; a
term, condition, or stipulation in a contract; a concise statement;
as, articles of agreement.

2. A literary composition, forming an independent portion of a
magazine, newspaper, or cyclopedia.

3. Subject; matter; concern; distinct. [Obs.]
A very great revolution that happened in this article of good
breeding. Addison.
This last article will hardly be believed. De Foe.

4. A distinct part. "Upon each article of human duty." Paley. "Each
article of time." Habington.
The articles which compose the blood. E. Darwin.

5. A particular one of various things; as, an article of merchandise;
salt is a necessary article.
They would fight not for articles of faith, but for articles of food.
Landor.

6. Precise point of time; moment. [Obs. or Archaic]
This fatal news coming to Hick's Hall upon the article of my Lord
Russell's trial, was said to have had no little influence on the jury
and all the bench to his prejudice. Evelyn.

7. (Gram.)

Defn: One of the three words, a, an, the, used before nouns to limit
or define their application. A (or an) is called the indefinite
article, the the definite article.

8. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the segments of an articulated appendage. Articles of
Confederation, the compact which was first made by the original
thirteen States of the United States. They were adopted March 1,
1781, and remained the supreme law until March, 1789.
 -- Articles of impeachment, an instrument which, in cases of
impeachment, performs the same office which an indictment does in a
common criminal case.
 -- Articles of war, rules and regulations, fixed by law, for the
better government of the army.
 -- In the article of death Etym: [L. in articulo mortis], at the
moment of death; in the dying struggle.
 -- Lords of the articles (Scot. Hist.), a standing committee of the
Scottish Parliament to whom was intrusted the drafting and
preparation of the acts, or bills for laws.
 -- The Thirty-nine Articles, statements (thirty-nine in number) of
the tenets held by the Church of England.

ARTICLE
Ar"ti*cle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Articled; p. pr. & vb. n. Articling.]
Etym: [Cf. F. articuler, fr. L. articulare. See Article, n.,
Articulate.]

1. To formulate in articles; to set forth in distinct particulars.
If all his errors and follies were articled against him, the man
would seem vicious and miserable. Jer. Taylor.

2. To accuse or charge by an exhibition of articles.
He shall be articled against in the high court of admiralty. Stat. 33
Geo. III.

3. To bind by articles of covenant or stipulation; as, to article an
apprentice to a mechanic.

ARTICLE
Ar"ti*cle, v. i.

Defn: To agree by articles; to stipulate; to bargain; to covenant.
[R.]
Then he articled with her that he should go away when he pleased.
Selden.

ARTICLED
Ar"ti*cled, a.

Defn: Bound by articles; apprenticed; as, an articled clerk.

ARTICULAR
Ar*tic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. articularis: cf. F. articulaire. See
Article, n.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the joints; as, an articular disease; an
articular process.

ARTICULAR; ARTICULARY
Ar*tic"u*lar, Ar*tic"u*la*ry, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles,
amphibians, and fishes.

ARTICULARLY
Ar*tic"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In an articular or an articulate manner.

ARTICULATA
Ar*tic`u*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl. from L. articulatus furnished
with joints, distinct, p. p. of articulare. See Article, v.] (Zoöl.)

1. One of the four subkingdoms in the classification of Cuvier. It
has been much modified by later writers.

Note: It includes those Invertebrata having the body composed of
ringlike segments (arthromeres). By some writers, the unsegmented
worms (helminths) have also been included; by others it is restricted
to the Arthropoda. It corresponds nearly with the Annulosa of some
authors. The chief subdivisions are Arthropoda (Insects, Myriapoda,
Arachnida, Pycnogonida, Crustacea); and Anarthropoda, including the
Annelida and allied forms.

2. One of the subdivisions of the Brachiopoda, including those that
have the shells united by a hinge.

3. A subdivision of the Crinoidea.

ARTICULATE
Ar*tic"u*late, a. Etym: [L. articulatus. See Articulata.]

1. Expressed in articles or in separate items or particulars.
[Archaic] Bacon.

2. Jointed; formed with joints; consisting of segments united by
joints; as, articulate animals or plants.

3. Distinctly uttered; spoken so as to be intelligible; characterized
by division into words and syllables; as, articulate speech, sounds,
words.
Total changes of party and articulate opinion. Carlyle.

ARTICULATE
Ar*tic"u*late, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal of the subkingdom Articulata.

ARTICULATE
Ar*tic"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Articulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Articulating].

1. To utter articulate sounds; to utter the elementary sounds of a
language; to enunciate; to speak distinctly.

2. To treat or make terms. [Obs.] Shak.

3. To join or be connected by articulation.

ARTICULATE
Ar*tic"u*late, v. t.

1. To joint; to unite by means of a joint; to put together with
joints or at the joints.

2. To draw up or write in separate articles; to particularize; to
specify. [Obs.]

3. To form, as the elementary sounds; to utter in distinct syllables
or words; to enunciate; as, to articulate letters or language. "To
articulate a word." Ray.

4. To express distinctly; to give utterance to.
Luther articulated himself upon a process that hand already begun in
the Christian church. Bibliotheca Sacra.
To . . . articulate the dumb, deep want of the people. Carlyle.

ARTICULATED
Ar*tic"u*la`ted, a.

1. United by, or provided with, articulations; jointed; as, an
articulated skeleton.

2. Produced, as a letter, syllable, or word, by the organs of speech;
pronounced.

ARTICULATELY
Ar*tic"u*late*ly, adv.

1. After the manner, or in the form, of a joint.

2. Article by article; in distinct particulars; in detail;
definitely. Paley.
I had articulately set down in writing our points. Fuller.

3. With distinct utterance of the separate sounds.

ARTICULATENESS
Ar*tic"u*late*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being articulate.

ARTICULATION
Ar*tic`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. articulation, fr. L. articulatio.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A joint or juncture between bones in the skeleton.

Note: Articulations may be immovable, when the bones are directly
united (synarthrosis), or slightly movable, when they are united
intervening substance (amphiarthrosis), or they may be more or less
freely movable, when the articular surfaces are covered with synovial
membranes, as in complete joints (diarthrosis). The last
(diarthrosis) includes hinge joints, admitting motion in one plane
only (ginglymus), ball and socket joints (enarthrosis), pivot and
rotation joints, etc.

2. (Bot.)
(a) The connection of the parts of a plant by joints, as in pods.
(b) One of the nodes or joints, as in cane and maize.
(c) One of the parts intercepted between the joints; also, a
subdivision into parts at regular or irregular intervals as a result
of serial intermission in growth, as in the cane, grasses, etc.
Lindley.

3. The act of putting together with a joint or joints; any meeting of
parts in a joint.

4. The state of being jointed; connection of parts. [R.]
That definiteness and articulation of imagery. Coleridge.

5. The utterance of the elementary sounds of a language by the
appropriate movements of the organs, as in pronunciation; as, a
distinct articulation.

6. A sound made by the vocal organs; an articulate utterance or an
elementary sound, esp. a consonant.

ARTICULATIVE
Ar*tic"u*la*tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to articulation. Bush.

ARTICULATOR
Ar*tic"u*la`tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, articulates; as: (a) One who enunciates
distinctly. (b) One who prepares and mounts skeletons. (c) An
instrument to cure stammering.

ARTICULUS
Ar*tic"u*lus n.; pl. Articuli. Etym: [L. See Article.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A joint of the cirri of the Crinoidea; a joint or segment of an
arthropod appendage.

ARTIFACT
Ar"ti*fact, n. [L. ars, artis, art + facere, factum, to make.]

1. (Archæol.)

Defn: A product of human workmanship; -- applied esp. to the simpler
products of aboriginal art as distinguished from natural objects.

2.  (Biol.) A structure or appearance in protoplasm due to death or
the  use of reagents and not present during life.

ARTIFICE
Ar"ti*fice, n. Etym: [L. artificium, fr. artifex artificer; ars,
artis, art + facere to make: cf. F. artifice.]

1. A handicraft; a trade; art of making. [Obs.]

2. Workmanship; a skillfully contrived work.
The material universe.. in the artifice of God, the artifice of the
best Mechanist. Cudworth.

3. Artful or skillful contrivance.
His [Congreve's] plots were constructed without much artifice. Craik.

4. Crafty device; an artful, ingenious, or elaborate trick.

Note: [Now the usual meaning.]
Those who were conscious of guilt employed numerous artifices for the
purpose of averting inquiry. Macaulay.

ARTIFICER
Ar*tif"i*cer, n. Etym: [Cf. F. artificier, fr. LL. artificiarius.]

1. An artistic worker; a mechanic or manufacturer; one whose
occupation requires skill or knowledge of a particular kind, as a
silversmith.

2. One who makes or contrives; a deviser, inventor, or framer.
"Artificer of fraud." Milton.
The great Artificer of all that moves. Cowper.

3. A cunning or artful fellow. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A military mechanic, as a blacksmith, carpenter, etc.; also,
one who prepares the shells, fuses, grenades, etc., in a military
laboratory.

Syn.
 -- Artisan; artist. See Artisan.

ARTIFICIAL
Ar`ti*fi"cial, a. Etym: [L. artificialis, fr. artificium: cf. F.
artificiel. See Artifice.]

1. Made or contrived by art; produced or modified by human skill and
labor, in opposition to natural; as, artificial heat or light, gems,
salts, minerals, fountains, flowers.
Artificial strife Lives in these touches, livelier than life. Shak.

2. Feigned; fictitious; assumed; affected; not genuine. "Artificial
tears." Shak.

3. Artful; cunning; crafty. [Obs.] Shak.

4. Cultivated; not indigenous; not of spontaneous growth; as,
artificial grasses. Gibbon. Artificial arguments (Rhet.), arguments
invented by the speaker, in distinction from laws, authorities, and
the like, which are called inartificial arguments or proofs. Johnson.
 -- Artificial classification (Science), an arrangement based on
superficial characters, and not expressing the true natural relations
species; as, "the artificial system" in botany, which is the same as
the Linnæan system.
 -- Artificial horizon. See under Horizon. Artificial light, any
light other than that which proceeds from the heavenly bodies.
 -- Artificial lines, lines on a sector or scale, so contrived as to
represent the logarithmic sines and tangents, which, by the help of
the line of numbers, solve, with tolerable exactness, questions in
trigonometry, navigation, etc.
 -- Artificial numbers, logarithms.
 -- Artificial person (Law). See under Person.
 -- Artificial sines, tangents, etc., the same as logarithms of the
natural, tangents, etc. Hutton.

ARTIFICIALITY
Ar`ti*fi`ci*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or appearance of being artificial; that which is
artificial.

ARTIFICIALIZE
Ar`ti*fi"cial*ize, v. t.

Defn: To render artificial.

ARTIFICIALLY
Ar`ti*fi"cial*ly, adv.

1. In an artificial manner; by art, or skill and contrivance, not by
nature.

2. Ingeniously; skillfully. [Obs.]
The spider's web, finely and artificially wrought. Tillotson.

3. Craftily; artfully. [Obs.]
Sharp dissembled so artificially. Bp. Burnet.

ARTIFICIALNESS
Ar`ti*fi"cial*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being artificial.

ARTIFICIOUS
Ar`ti*fi"cious, a. Etym: [L. artificiosus.]

Defn: Artificial. [Obs.] Johnson.

ARTILIZE
Art"i*lize, v. t.

Defn: To make resemble. [Obs.]
If I was a philosopher, says Montaigne, I would naturalize art
instead of artilizing nature. Bolingbroke.

ARTILLERIST
Ar*til"ler*ist, n.

Defn: A person skilled in artillery or gunnery; a gunner; an
artilleryman.

ARTILLERY
Ar*til"ler*y, n. Etym: [OE. artilrie, OF. artillerie, arteillerie,
fr. LL. artillaria, artilleria, machines and apparatus of all kinds
used in war, vans laden with arms of any kind which follow camps; F.
artillerie great guns, ordnance; OF. artillier to work artifice, to
fortify, to arm, prob. from L. ars, artis, skill in joining
something, art. See Art.]

1. Munitions of war; implements for warfare, as slings, bows, and
arrows. [Obs.]
And Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad. 1 Sam. xx. 40.

2. Cannon; great guns; ordnance, including guns, mortars, howitzers,
etc., with their equipment of carriages, balls, bombs, and shot of
all kinds.

Note: The word is sometimes used in a more extended sense, including
the powder, cartridges, matches, utensils, machines of all kinds, and
horses, that belong to a train of artillery.

3. The men and officers of that branch of the army to which the care
and management of artillery are confided.

4. The science of artillery or gunnery. Campbell. Artillery park, or
Park of artillery. (a) A collective body of siege or field artillery,
including the guns, and the carriages, ammunition, appurtenances,
equipments, and persons necessary for working them. (b) The place
where the artillery is encamped or collected.
 -- Artillery train, or Train of artillery, a number of pieces of
ordnance mounted on carriages, with all their furniture, ready for
marching.

ARTILLERYMAN
Ar*til"ler*y*man, n.

Defn: A man who manages, or assists in managing, a large gun in
firing.

ARTILLERY WHEEL
Ar*til"ler*y wheel.

Defn: A kind of heavily built dished wheel with a long axle box, used
on gun carriages, usually having 14 spokes and 7 felloes; hence, a
wheel of similar construction for use on automobiles, etc.

ARTIODACTYLA
Ar`ti*o*dac"ty*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the divisions of the ungulate animals. The functional
toes of the hind foot are even in number, and the third digit of each
foot (corresponding to the middle finger in man) is asymmetrical and
paired with the fourth digit, as in the hog, the sheep, and the ox; -
- opposed to Perissodactyla.

ARTIODACTYLE
Ar`ti*o*dac"tyle, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Artiodactyla.

ARTIODACTYLOUS
Ar`ti*o*dac"ty*lous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Even-toed.

ARTISAN
Ar"ti*san, n. Etym: [F. artisan, fr. L. artitus skilled in arts, fr.
ars, artis, art: cf. It. artigiano. See Art, n.]

1. One who professes and practices some liberal art; an artist.
[Obs.]

2. One trained to manual dexterity in some mechanic art or trade; and
handicraftsman; a mechanic.
This is willingly submitted to by the artisan, who can . . .
compensate his additional toil and fatigue. Hume.

Syn.
 -- Artificer; artist.
 -- Artisan, Artist, Artificer. An artist is one who is skilled in
some one of the fine arts; an artisan is one who exercises any
mechanical employment. A portrait painter is an artist; a sign
painter is an artisan, although he may have the taste and skill of an
artist. The occupation of the former requires a fine taste and
delicate manipulation; that of the latter demands only an ordinary
degree of contrivance and imitative power. An artificer is one who
requires power of contrivance and adaptation in the exercise of his
profession. The word suggest neither the idea of mechanical
conformity to rule which attaches to the term artisan, nor the ideas
of refinement and of peculiar skill which belong to the term artist.

ARTIST
Art"ist, n. Etym: [F. artiste, LL. artista, fr. L. ars. See Art, n.,
and cf. Artiste.]

1. One who practices some mechanic art or craft; an artisan. [Obs.]
How to build ships, and dreadful ordnance cast, Instruct the articles
and reward their. Waller.

2. One who professes and practices an art in which science and taste
preside over the manual execution.

Note: The term is particularly applied to painters, sculptors,
musicians, engravers, and architects. Elmes.

3. One who shows trained skill or rare taste in any manual art or
occupation. Pope.

4. An artful person; a schemer. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Artisan. See Artisan.

ARTISTE
Ar*tiste", n. Etym: [F. See Artist.]

Defn: One peculiarly dexterous and tasteful in almost any employment,
as an opera dancer, a hairdresser, a cook.

Note: This term should not be confounded with the English word
artist.

ARTISTIC; ARTISTICAL
Ar*tis"tic, Ar*tis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. artistique, fr. artiste.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to art or to artists; made in the manner of an
artist; conformable to art; characterized by art; showing taste or
skill.
 -- Ar*tis"tic*al*ly, adv.

ARTISTRY
Art"ist*ry, n.

1. Works of art collectively.

2. Artistic effect or quality. Southey.

3. Artistic pursuits; artistic ability. The Academy.

ARTLESS
Art"less, a.

1. Wanting art, knowledge, or skill; ignorant; unskillful.
Artless of stars and of the moving sand. Dryden.

2. Contrived without skill or art; inartistic. [R.]
Artless and massy pillars. T. Warton.

3. Free from guile, art, craft, or stratagem; characterized by
simplicity and sincerity; sincere; guileless; ingenuous; honest; as,
an artless mind; an artless tale.
They were plain, artless men, without the least appearance of
enthusiasm or credulity about them. Porteus.
O, how unlike the complex works of man, Heaven's easy, artless,
unencumbered plan! Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Simple; unaffected; sincere; undesigning; guileless;
unsophisticated; open; frank; candid.

ARTLESSLY
Art"less*ly, adv.

Defn: In an artless manner; without art, skill, or guile;
unaffectedly. Pope.

ARTLESSNESS
Art"less*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being artless, or void of art or guile;
simplicity; sincerity.

ARTLY
Art"ly, adv.

Defn: With art or skill. [Obs.]

ARTOCARPEOUS; ARTOCARPOUS
Ar`to*car"pe*ous, Ar`to*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the breadfruit, or to the genus Artocarpus.

ARTOTYPE
Ar"to*type, n. Etym: [Art + type.]

Defn: A kind of autotype.

ARTOTYRITE
Ar`to*ty"rite, n. Etym: [LL. Artotyritae, pl., fr. Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect in the primitive church, who celebrated the
Lord's Supper with bread and cheese, alleging that the first
oblations of men not only of the fruit of the earth, but of their
flocks. [Gen. iv. 3, 4.]

ARTOW
Ar"tow.

Defn: A contraction of art thou. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ARTSMAN
Arts"man, n.

Defn: A man skilled in an art or in arts. [Obs.] Bacon.

ART UNION
Art` un"ion.

Defn: An association for promoting art (esp. the arts of design), and
giving encouragement to artists.

ARUM
A"rum, n. Etym: [L. arum, aros, Gr.

Defn: A genus of plants found in central Europe and about the
Mediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe. The
cuckoopint of the English is an example.
Our common arums the lords and ladies of village children. Lubbock.

Note: The American "Jack in the pulpit" is now separated from the
genus Arum.

ARUNDELIAN
Ar`un*del"ian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an Earl of Arundel; as, Arundel or Arundelian
marbles, marbles from ancient Greece, bought by the Earl of Arundel
in 1624.

ARUNDIFEROUS
Ar`un*dif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. arundifer; arundo reed + ferre to
bear.]

Defn: Producing reeds or canes.

ARUNDINACEOUS
A*run`di*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. arundinaceus, fr. arundo reed.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a reed; resembling the reed or cane.

ARUNDINEOUS
Ar`un*din"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. arundineus, fr. arundo reed.]

Defn: Abounding with reeds; reedy.

ARUSPEX
A*rus"pex, n.; pl. Aruspices. Etym: [L. aruspex or haruspex.]

Defn: One of the class of diviners among the Etruscans and Romans,
who foretold events by the inspection of the entrails of victims
offered on the altars of the gods.

ARUSPICE
A*rus"pice, n. Etym: [L. aruspex: cf. F. aruspice. Cf. Aruspex,
Haruspice.]

Defn: A soothsayer of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspex. [Written also
haruspice.]

ARUSPICY
A*rus"pi*cy, n. Etym: [L. aruspicium, haruspicium.]

Defn: Prognostication by inspection of the entrails of victims slain
sacrifice.

ARVAL
Ar"val, n. Etym: [W. arwyl funeral; ar over + wylo to weep, or cf.
arföl; Icel. arfr inheritance + Sw. öl ale. Cf. Bridal.]

Defn: A funeral feast. [North of Eng.] Grose.

ARVICOLE
Ar"vi*cole, n. Etym: [L. arvum field + colere to inhabit.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mouse of the genus Arvicola; the meadow mouse. There are many
species.

ARYAN
Ar"yan, n. Etym: [Skr. arya excellent, honorable; akin to the name of
the country Iran, and perh. to Erin, Ireland, and the early name of
this people, at least in Asia.]

1. One of a primitive people supposed to have lived in prehistoric
times, in Central Asia, east of the Caspian Sea, and north of the
Hindoo

2. The language of the original Aryans. [Written also Arian.]

ARYAN
Ar"yan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the people called Aryans; Indo-European;
Indo-Germanic; as, the Aryan stock, the Aryan languages.

ARYANIZE
Ar"yan*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make Aryan (a language, or in language). K. Johnston.

ARYTENOID
A*ryt"e*noid, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Ladle-shaped; -- applied to two small cartilages of the larynx,
and also to the glands, muscles, etc., connected with them. The
cartilages are attached to the cricoid cartilage and connected with
the vocal cords.

AS
As, adv. & conj. Etym: [OE. as, als, alse, also, al swa, AS. eal swa,
lit. all so; hence, quite so, quite as: cf. G. als as, than, also so,
then. See Also.]

1. Denoting equality or likeness in kind, degree, or manner; like;
similar to; in the same manner with or in which; in accordance with;
in proportion to; to the extent or degree in which or to which;
equally; no less than; as, ye shall be as gods, knowing good and
evil; you will reap as you sow; do as you are bidden.
His spiritual attendants adjured him, as he loved his soul, to
emancipate his brethren. Macaulay.

Note: As is often preceded by one of the antecedent or correlative
words such, same, so, or as, in expressing an equality or comparison;
as, give us such things as you please, and so long as you please, or
as long as you please; he is not so brave as Cato; she is as amiable
as she is handsome; come as quickly as possible. "Bees appear
fortunately to prefer the same colors as we do." Lubbock. As, in a
preceding part of a sentence, has such or so to answer correlatively
to it; as with the people, so with the priest.

2. In the idea, character, or condition of, -- limiting the view to
certain attributes or relations; as, virtue considered as virtue;
this actor will appear as Hamlet.
The beggar is greater as a man, than is the man merely as a king.
Dewey.

3. While; during or at the same time that; when; as, he trembled as
he spoke.
As I return I will fetch off these justices. Shak.

4. Because; since; it being the case that.
As the population of Scotland had been generally trained to arms . .
. they were not indifferently prepared. Sir W. Scott.
[See Synonym under Because.]

5. Expressing concession. (Often approaching though in meaning).
We wish, however, to avail ourselves of the interest, transient as it
may be, which this work has excited. Macaulay.

6. That, introducing or expressing a result or consequence, after the
correlatives so and such. [Obs.]
I can place thee in such abject state, as help shall never find thee.
Rowe.
So as, so that. [Obs.]
The relations are so uncertain as they require a great deal of
examination. Bacon.

7. As if; as though. [Obs. or Poetic]
He lies, as he his bliss did know. Waller.

8. For instance; by way of example; thus; -- used to introduce
illustrative phrases, sentences, or citations.

9. Than. [Obs. & R.]
The king was not more forward to bestow favors on them as they free
to deal affronts to others their superiors. Fuller.

10. Expressing a wish. [Obs.] "As have," i. e., may he have. Chaucer.
As . . . as. See So . . . as, under So.
 -- As far as, to the extent or degree. "As far as can be
ascertained." Macaulay.
 -- As far forth as, as far as. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- As for, or As to, in regard to; with respect to.
 -- As good as, not less than; not falling short of.
 -- As good as one's word, faithful to a promise.
 -- As if, or As though, of the same kind, or in the same condition
or manner, that it would be if.
 -- As it were (as if it were), a qualifying phrase used to apologize
for or to relieve some expression which might be regarded as
inappropriate or incongruous; in a manner.
 -- As now, just now. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- As swythe, as quickly as possible. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- As well, also; too; besides. Addison.
 -- As well as, equally with, no less than. "I have understanding as
well as you." Job xii. 3.
 -- As yet, until now; up to or at the present time; still; now.

AS
As, n. Etym: [See Ace.]

Defn: An ace. [Obs.] Chaucer. Ambes-as, double aces.

AS
As, n.; pl. Asses. Etym: [L. as. See Ace.]

1. A Roman weight, answering to the libra or pound, equal to nearly
eleven ounces Troy weight. It was divided into twelve ounces.

2. A Roman copper coin, originally of a pound weight (12 oz.); but
reduced, after the first Punic war, to two ounces; in the second
Punic war, to one ounce; and afterwards to half an ounce.

ASA
As"a, n. Etym: [NL. asa, of oriental origin; cf. Per. aza mastic, Ar.
asa healing, isa remedy.]

Defn: An ancient name of a gum.

ASAFETIDA; ASAFOETIDA
As`a*fet"i*da, As`a*foet"i*da, n. Etym: [Asa + L. foetidus fetid.]

Defn: The fetid gum resin or inspissated juice of a large
umbelliferous plant (Ferula asafoetida) of Persia and the East India.
It is used in medicine as an antispasmodic. [Written also
assafoetida.]

ASAPHUS
As"a*phus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of trilobites found in the Lower Silurian formation.
See Illust. in Append.

ASARABACCA
As`a*ra*bac"ca, n. Etym: [L. asarum + bacca a berry. See Asarone.]
(Bot.)

Defn: An acrid herbaceous plant (Asarum Europæum), the leaves and
roots of which are emetic and cathartic. It is principally used in
cephalic snuffs.

ASARONE
As"a*rone, n. Etym: [L. asarum hazelwort, wild spikenard, Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A crystallized substance, resembling camphor, obtained from the
Asarum Europæum; -- called also camphor of asarum.

ASBESTIC
As*bes"tic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling asbestus; inconsumable;
asbestine.

ASBESTIFORM
As*bes"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. asbestus + -form.]

Defn: Having the form or structure of asbestus.

ASBESTINE
As*bes"tine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to asbestus, or partaking of its nature;
incombustible; asbestic.

ASBESTOUS
As*bes"tous, a.

Defn: Asbestic.

ASBESTUS; ASBESTOS
As*bes"tus, As*bes"tos, n. Etym: [L. asbestos (NL. asbestus) a kind
of mineral unaffected by fire, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of amphibole or of pyroxene, occurring in long and
delicate fibers, or in fibrous masses or seams, usually of a white,
gray, or green-gray color. The name is also given to a similar
variety of serpentine.

Note: The finer varieties have been wrought into gloves and cloth
which are incombustible. The cloth was formerly used as a shroud for
dead bodies, and has been recommended for firemen's clothes. Asbestus
in also employed in the manufacture of iron safes, for fireproof
roofing, and for lampwicks. Some varieties are called amianthus.
Dana.

ASBOLIN
As"bo*lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar acrid and bitter oil, obtained from wood soot.

ASCARIASIS
As`ca*ri"a*sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  an intestinal worm.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease, usually accompanied by colicky pains and diarrhea,
caused by the presence of ascarids in the gastrointestinal canal.

ASCARID
As"ca*rid, n.; pl. Ascarides or Ascarids. Etym: [NL. ascaris, fr. Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A parasitic nematoid worm, espec. the roundworm, Ascaris
lumbricoides, often occurring in the human intestine and allied
species found in domestic animals; also commonly applied to the
pinworm (Oxyuris), often troublesome to children and aged persons.

ASCEND
As*cend", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ascended; p. pr. & vb. n. Ascending.]
Etym: [L. ascendere; ad + scandere to climb, mount. See Scan.]

1. To move upward; to mount; to go up; to rise; -- opposed to Ant:
descend.
Higher yet that star ascends. Bowring.
I ascend unto my father and your father. John xx. 17.

Note: Formerly used with up.
The smoke of it ascended up to heaven. Addison.

2. To rise, in a figurative sense; to proceed from an inferior to a
superior degree, from mean to noble objects, from particulars to
generals, from modern to ancient times, from one note to another more
acute, etc.; as, our inquiries ascend to the remotest antiquity; to
ascend to our first progenitor.

Syn.
 -- To rise; mount; climb; scale; soar; tower.

ASCEND
As*cend", v. t.

Defn: To go or move upward upon or along; to climb; to mount; to go
up the top of; as, to ascend a hill, a ladder, a tree, a river, a
throne.

ASCENDABLE
As*cend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being ascended.

ASCENDANCY; ASCENDANCE
As*cend"an*cy, As*cend"ance, n.

Defn: Same as Ascendency.

ASCENDANT
As*cend"ant, n. Etym: [F. ascendant, L. ascendens; p. pr. of
ascendere.]

1. Ascent; height; elevation. [R.]
Sciences that were then in their highest ascendant. Temple.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: The horoscope, or that degree of the ecliptic which rises above
the horizon at the moment of one's birth; supposed to have a
commanding influence on a person's life and fortune.

Note: Hence the phrases To be in the ascendant, to have commanding
power or influence, and Lord of the ascendant, one who has possession
of such power or influence; as, to rule, for a while, lord of the
ascendant. Burke.

3. Superiority, or commanding influence; ascendency; as, one man has
the ascendant over another.
Chievres had acquired over the mind of the young monarch the
ascendant not only of a tutor, but of a parent. Robertson.

4. An ancestor, or one who precedes in genealogy or degrees of
kindred; a relative in the ascending line; a progenitor; -- opposed
to descendant. Ayliffe.

ASCENDANT; ASCENDENT
As*cend"ant, As*cend"ent, a.

1. Rising toward the zenith; above the horizon.
The constellation . . . about that time ascendant. Browne.

2. Rising; ascending. Ruskin.

3. Superior; surpassing; ruling.
An ascendant spirit over him. South.
The ascendant community obtained a surplus of wealth. J. S. Mill.
Without some power of persuading or confuting, of defending himself
against accusations, . . . no man could possibly hold an ascendent
position. Grote.

ASCENDENCY
As*cend"en*cy, n.

Defn: Governing or controlling influence; domination; power.
An undisputed ascendency. Macaulay.
Custom has an ascendency over the understanding. Watts.

Syn.
 -- Control; authority; influence; sway; dominion; prevalence;
domination.

ASCENDIBLE
As*cend"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. ascendibilis.]

Defn: Capable of being ascended; climbable.

ASCENDING
As*cend"ing, a.

Defn: Rising; moving upward; as, an ascending kite.
 -- As*cend"ing*ly, adv. Ascending latitude (Astron.), the increasing
latitude of a planet. Ferguson.
 -- Ascending line (Geneol.), the line of relationship traced
backward or through one's ancestors. One's father and mother,
grandfather and grandmother, etc., are in the line direct ascending.
 -- Ascending node having, that node of the moon or a planet wherein
it passes the ecliptic to proceed northward. It is also called the
northern node. Herschel.
 -- Ascending series. (Math.) (a) A series arranged according to the
ascending powers of a quantity. (b) A series in which each term is
greater than the preceding.
 -- Ascending signs, signs east of the meridian.

ASCENSION
As*cen"sion, n. Etym: [F. ascension, L. ascensio, fr. ascendere. See
Ascend.]

1. The act of ascending; a rising; ascent.

2. Specifically: The visible ascent of our Savior on the fortieth day
after his resurrection. (Acts i. 9.) Also, Ascension Day.

3. An ascending or arising, as in distillation; also that which
arises, as from distillation.
Vaporous ascensions from the stomach. Sir T. Browne.
Ascension Day, the Thursday but one before Whitsuntide, the day on
which commemorated our Savior's ascension into heaven after his
resurrection; -- called also Holy Thursday.
 -- Right ascension (Astron.), that degree of the equinoctial,
counted from the beginning of Aries, which rises with a star, or
other celestial body, in a right sphere; or the arc of the equator
intercepted between the first point of Aries and that point of the
equator that comes to the meridian with the star; -- expressed either
in degrees or in time.
 -- Oblique ascension (Astron.), an arc of the equator, intercepted
between the first point of Aries and that point of the equator which
rises together with a star, in an oblique sphere; or the arc of the
equator intercepted between the first point of Aries and that point
of the equator that comes to the horizon with a star. It is little
used in modern astronomy.

ASCENSIONAL
As*cen"sion*al, a.

Defn: Relating to ascension; connected with ascent; ascensive;
tending upward; as, the ascensional power of a balloon. Ascensional
difference (Astron.), the difference between oblique and right
ascension; -- used chiefly as expressing the difference between the
time of the rising or setting of a body and six o'clock, or six hours
from its meridian passage.

ASCENSIVE
As*cen"sive, a. Etym: [See Ascend.]

1. Rising; tending to rise, or causing to rise. Owen.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Augmentative; intensive. Ellicott.

ASCENT
As*cent". Etym: [Formed like descent, as if from a F. ascente, fr. a
verb ascendre, fr. L. ascendere. See Ascend, Descent.]

1. The act of rising; motion upward; rise; a mounting upward; as, he
made a tedious ascent; the ascent of vapors from the earth.
To him with swift ascent he up returned. Milton.

2. The way or means by which one ascends.

3. An eminence, hill, or high place. Addison.

4. The degree of elevation of an object, or the angle it makes with a
horizontal line; inclination; rising grade; as, a road has an ascent
of five degrees.

ASCERTAIN
As`cer*tain", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ascertained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Ascertaining.] Etym: [OF. acertener; a (L. ad) + certain. See
Certain.]

1. To render (a person) certain; to cause to feel certain; to make
confident; to assure; to apprise. [Obs.]
When the blessed Virgin was so ascertained. Jer. Taylor.
Muncer assured them that the design was approved of by Heaven, and
that the Almighty had in a dream ascertained him of its effects.
Robertson.

2. To make (a thing) certain to the mind; to free from obscurity,
doubt, or change; to make sure of; to fix; to determine. [Archaic]
The divine law . . . ascertaineth the truth. Hooker.
The very deferring [of his execution] shall increase and ascertain
the condemnation. Jer. Taylor.
The ministry, in order to ascertain a majority . . . persuaded the
queen to create twelve new peers. Smollett.
The mildness and precision of their laws ascertained the rule and
measure of taxation. Gibbon.

3. To find out or learn for a certainty, by trial, examination, or
experiment; to get to know; as, to ascertain the weight of a
commodity, or the purity of a metal.
He was there only for the purpose of ascertaining whether a descent
on England was practicable. Macaulay.

ASCERTAINABLE
As`cer*tain"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be ascertained.
 -- As`cer*tain"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- As`cer*tain"a*bly, adv.

ASCERTAINER
As`cer*tain"er, n.

Defn: One who ascertains.

ASCERTAINMENT
As`cer*tain"ment, n.

Defn: The act of ascertaining; a reducing to certainty; a finding out
by investigation; discovery.
The positive ascertainment of its limits. Burke.

ASCESSANCY; ASCESSANT
As*ces"san*cy, n. As*ces"sant, a.

Defn: See Acescency, Acescent. [Obs.]

ASCETIC
As*cet"ic a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Extremely rigid in self-denial and devotions; austere; severe.
The stern ascetic rigor of the Temple discipline. Sir W. Scott.

ASCETIC
As*cet"ic, n.

Defn: In the early church, one who devoted himself to a solitary and
contemplative life, characterized by devotion, extreme self-denial,
and self-mortification; a hermit; a recluse; hence, one who practices
extreme rigor and self-denial in religious things.
I am far from commending those ascetics that take up their quarters
in deserts. Norris.
Ascetic theology, the science which treats of the practice of the
theological and moral virtues, and the counsels of perfection. Am.
Cyc.

ASCETICISM
As*cet"i*cism, n.

Defn: The condition, practice, or mode of life, of ascetics.

ASCHAM
As"cham, n. Etym: [From Roger Ascham, who was a great lover of
archery.]

Defn: A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and other
implements of archery.

ASCI
As"ci, n. pl.

Defn: See Ascus.

ASCIAN
As"cian, n.

Defn: One of the Ascii.

ASCIDIAN
As*cid"i*an, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Ascidioidea, or in a more general sense, one of the
Tunicata. Also as an adj.

ASCIDIARIUM
As*cid`i*a"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Ascidium.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The structure which unites together the ascidiozooids in a
compound ascidian.

ASCIDIFORM
As*cid"i*form, a. Etym: [Gr. -form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Shaped like an ascidian.

ASCIDIOIDEA
As*cid`i*oid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. ascidium + -oid. See
Ascidium.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Tunicata, often shaped like a two-necked bottle. The
group includes, social, and compound species. The gill is a netlike
structure within the oral aperture. The integument is usually
leathery in texture. See Illustration in Appendix.

ASCIDIOZOOID
As*cid`i*o*zo"oid, n. Etym: [Ascidium + zooid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the individual members of a compound ascidian. See
Ascidioidea.

ASCIDIUM
As*cid"i*um, n.; pl. Ascidia. Etym: [NL., fr. ascus. See Ascus.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A pitcher-shaped, or flask-shaped, organ or appendage of a
plant, as the leaves of the pitcher plant, or the little bladderlike
traps of the bladderwort (Utricularia).

2. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of simple ascidians, which formerly included most of
the known species. It is sometimes used as a name for the
Ascidioidea, or for all the Tunicata.

ASCIGEROUS
As*cig"er*ous, a. Etym: [Ascus + -gerous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having asci. Loudon.

ASCII; ASCIANS
As"ci*i, As"cians, n. pl. Etym: [L. ascii, pl. of ascius, Gr.

Defn: Persons who, at certain times of the year, have no shadow at
noon; -- applied to the inhabitants of the torrid zone, who have,
twice a year, a vertical sun.

ASCITES
As*ci"tes, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the abdomen;
dropsy of the peritoneum. Dunglison.

ASCITIC; ASCITICAL
As*cit"ic, As*cit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or affected by, ascites; dropsical.

ASCITITIOUS
As`ci*ti"tious, a. Etym: [See Adscititious.]

Defn: Supplemental; not inherent or original; adscititious;
additional; assumed.
Homer has been reckoned an ascititious name. Pope.

ASCLEPIAD
As*cle"pi*ad, n. (Gr. & L. Pros.)

Defn: A choriambic verse, first used by the Greek poet Asclepias,
consisting of four feet, viz., a spondee, two choriambi, and an
iambus.

ASCLEPIADACEOUS
As*cle`pi*a*da"ceous, a. Etym: [See Asclepias.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the Milkweed
family.

ASCLEPIAS
As*cle"pi*as, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Asclepios or Aesculapius.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the milkweed, swallowwort, and some
other species having medicinal properties. Asclepias butterfly
(Zoöl.), a large, handsome, red and black butterfly (Danais
Archippus), found in both hemispheres. It feeds on plants of the
genus Asclepias.

ASCOCARP
As"co*carp, n. [Gr. 'asko`s a bladder + karpo`s fruit.] (Bot.)

Defn: In ascomycetous fungi, the spherical, discoid, or cup-shaped
body within which the asci are collected, and which constitutes the
mature fructification. The different forms are known in mycology
under distinct names. Called also spore fruit.

ASCOCOCCUS
As`co*coc"cus, n.; pl. Ascococci. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A form of micrococcus, found in putrid meat infusions,
occurring in peculiar masses, each of which is inclosed in a hyaline
capsule and contains a large number of spherical micrococci.

ASCOMYCETES
As`co*my*ce"tes, n. pl. [NL.; ascus + Gr. , , fungus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large class of higher fungi distinguished by septate hyphæ,
and by having their spores formed in asci, or spore sacs. It
comprises many orders, among which are the yeasts, molds, mildews,
truffles, morels, etc. -- As`co*my*ce"tous (#), a.

ASCOSPORE
As"co*spore, n. Etym: [Ascus + spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the spores contained in the asci of lichens and fungi.
[See Illust. of Ascus.]

ASCRIBABLE
As*crib"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being ascribed; attributable.

ASCRIBE
As*cribe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ascribed; p. pr. & vb. n. Ascribing.]
Etym: [L. ascribere, adscribere, to ascribe; ad + scribere to write:
cf. OF. ascrire. See Scribe.]

1. To attribute, impute, or refer, as to a cause; as, his death was
ascribed to a poison; to ascribe an effect to the right cause; to
ascribe such a book to such an author.
The finest [speech] that is ascribed to Satan in the whole poem.
Addison.

2. To attribute, as a quality, or an appurtenance; to consider or
allege to belong.

Syn.
 -- To Ascribe, Attribute, Impute. Attribute denotes, 1. To refer
some quality or attribute to a being; as, to attribute power to God.
2. To refer something to its cause or source; as, to attribute a
backward spring to icebergs off the coast. Ascribe is used equally in
both these senses, but involves a different image. To impute usually
denotes to ascribe something doubtful or wrong, and hence, in general
literature, has commonly a bad sense; as, to impute unworthy motives.
The theological sense of impute is not here taken into view.
More than good-will to me attribute naught. Spenser.
Ascribes his gettings to his parts and merit. Pope.
And fairly quit him of the imputed blame. Spenser.

ASCRIPT
As"cript, a.

Defn: See Adscript. [Obs.]

ASCRIPTION
As*crip"tion, n. Etym: [L. ascriptio, fr. ascribere. See Ascribe.]

Defn: The act of ascribing, imputing, or affirming to belong; also,
that which is ascribed.

ASCRIPTITIOUS
As`crip*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. ascriptitius, fr. ascribere.]

1. Ascribed.

2. Added; additional. [Obs.]
An ascriptitious and supernumerary God. Farindon.

ASCUS
As"cus, n.; pl. Asci. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed the
seedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certain
fungi.

A-SEA
A-sea, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + sea.]

Defn: On the sea; at sea; toward the sea.

ASEMIA
A*se"mi*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. +  sign.] (Med.)

Defn: Loss of power to express, or to understand, symbols or signs of
thought.

ASEPSIS
A*sep"sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. + sepsis.]

Defn: State of being aseptic; the methods or processes of
asepticizing.

ASEPTIC
A*sep"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + septic.]

Defn: Not liable to putrefaction; nonputrescent.
 -- n.

Defn: An aseptic substance.

ASEXUAL
A*sex"u*al, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + sexual.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having no distinct; without sexual action; as, asexual
reproduction. See Fission and Gemmation.

ASEXUALIZATION
A*sex`u*al*i*za"tion, n. [Asexual + -ize + -ation.]

Defn: The act or process of sterilizing an animal or human being, as
by vasectomy.

ASEXUALLY
A*sex"u*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an asexual manner; without sexual agency.

ASH
Ash, n. Etym: [OE. asch, esh, AS. æsc; akin to OHG. asc, Sw. & Dan.
ask, Icel. askr, D. esch, G. esche.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees of the Olive family, having opposite pinnate
leaves, many of the species furnishing valuable timber, as the
European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and the white ash (F. Americana).
Prickly ash (Zanthoxylum Americanum) and Poison ash (Rhus venenata)
are shrubs of different families, somewhat resembling the true ashes
in their foliage.
 -- Mountain ash. See Roman tree, and under Mountain.

2. The tough, elastic wood of the ash tree.

Note: Ash is used adjectively, or as the first part of a compound
term; as, ash bud, ash wood, ash tree, etc.

ASH
Ash, n.,

Defn: sing. of Ashes.

Note: Ash is rarely used in the singular except in connection with
chemical or geological products; as, soda ash, coal which yields a
red ash, etc., or as a qualifying or combining word; as, ash bin, ash
heap, ash hole, ash pan, ash pit, ash-grey, ash-colored, pearlash,
potash. Bone ash, burnt powered; bone earth.
 -- Volcanic ash. See under Ashes.

ASH
Ash, v. t.

Defn: To strew or sprinkle with ashes. Howell.

ASHAME
A*shame, v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + shame: cf. AS. ascamian to shame
(where a- is the same as Goth. us-, G. er-, and orig. meant out),
gescamian, gesceamian, to shame.]

Defn: To shame. [R.] Barrow.

ASHAMED
A*shamed", a. Etym: [Orig. a p. p. of ashame, v. t.]

Defn: Affected by shame; abashed or confused by guilt, or a
conviction or consciousness of some wrong action or impropriety. "I
am ashamed to beg." Wyclif.
All that forsake thee shall be ashamed. Jer. xvii. 13.
I began to be ashamed of sitting idle. Johnson.
Enough to make us ashamed of our species. Macaulay.
An ashamed person can hardly endure to meet the gaze of those
present. Darwin.

Note: Ashamed seldom precedes the noun or pronoun it qualifies. By a
Hebraism, it is sometimes used in the Bible to mean disappointed, or
defeated.

ASHAMEDLY
A*sham"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Bashfully. [R.]

ASHANTEE
Ash`an*tee", n.; pl. Ashantees.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Ashantee in Western Africa.

ASHANTEE
Ash`an*tee", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Ashantee.

ASH-COLORED
Ash"-col`ored, a.

Defn: Of the color of ashes; a whitish gray or brownish gray.

ASHEN
Ash"en, a. Etym: [See Ash, the tree.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ash tree. "Ashen poles." Dryden.

ASHEN
Ash"en, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, ashes; of a color between brown
and gray, or white and gray.
The ashen hue of age. Sir W. Scott.

ASHEN
Ash"en, n.,

Defn: obs. pl. for Ashes. Chaucer.

ASHERY
Ash"er*y, n.

1. A depository for ashes.

2. A place where potash is made.

ASHES
Ash"es, n. pl. Etym: [OE. asche, aske, AS. asce, æsce, axe; akin to
OHG. asca, G. asche, D. asch, Icel. & Sw. aska, Dan. aske, Goth.
azgo.]

1. The earthy or mineral particles of combustible substances
remaining after combustion, as of wood or coal.

2. Specifically: The remains of the human body when burnt, or when
"returned to dust" by natural decay.
Their martyred blood and ashes sow. Milton.
The coffins were broken open. The ashes were scattered to the winds.
Macaulay.

3. The color of ashes; deathlike paleness.
The lip of ashes, and the cheek of flame. Byron.
In dust and ashes, In sackcloth and ashes, with humble expression of
grief or repentance; -- from the method of mourning in Eastern lands.
 -- Volcanic ashes, or Volcanic ash, the loose, earthy matter, or
small fragments of stone or lava, ejected by volcanoes.

ASH-FIRE
Ash"-fire, n.

Defn: A low fire used in chemical operations.

ASH-FURNACE; ASH-OVEN
Ash"-fur`nace, Ash"-ov`en, n.

Defn: A furnace or oven for fritting materials for glass making.

ASHINE
A*shine", a.

Defn: Shining; radiant.

ASHLAR; ASHLER
Ash"lar, Ash"ler, n. Etym: [OE. ascheler, achiler, OF. aiseler, fr.
aiselle, dim. of ais plank, fr. L. axis, assis, plank, axle. See
Axle.]

1. (Masonry)
(a) Hewn or squared stone; also, masonry made of squared or hewn
stone.
Rough ashlar, a block of freestone as brought from the quarry. When
hammer-dressed it is known as common ashlar. Knight.

(b) In the United States especially, a thin facing of squared and
dressed stone upon a wall of rubble or brick. Knight.

ASHLARING; ASHLERING
Ash"lar*ing, Ash"ler*ing, n.

1. The act of bedding ashlar in mortar.

2. Ashlar when in thin slabs and made to serve merely as a case to
the body of the wall. Brande & C.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: The short upright pieces between the floor beams and rafters in
garrets. See Ashlar, 2.

ASHORE
A*shore", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + shore.]

Defn: On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to the
shore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship); -- sometimes
opposed to aboard or afloat.
Here shall I die ashore. Shak.
I must fetch his necessaries ashore. Shak.

ASHTORETH
Ash"to*reth, n.; pl. Ashtaroth.

Defn: The principal female divinity of the Phoenicians, as Baal was
the principal male divinity. W. Smith.

ASH WEDNESDAY
Ash` Wednes"day.

Defn: The first day of Lent; -- so called from a custom in the Roman
Catholic church of putting ashes, on that day, upon the foreheads of
penitents.

ASHWEED
Ash"weed`, n. (Bot.) Etym: [A corruption of ache-weed; F. ache. So
named from the likeness of its leaves to those of ache (celery).]

Defn: Goutweed.

ASHY
Ash"y, a.

1. Pertaining to, or composed of, ashes; filled, or strewed with,
ashes.

2. Ash-colored; whitish gray; deadly pale. Shak. Ashy pale, pale as
ashes. Shak.

ASIAN
A"sian, a. Etym: [L. Asianus, Gr. Asia.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic. "Asian princes." Jer.
Taylor.
 -- n.

Defn: An Asiatic.

ASIARCH
A"si*arch, n. Etym: [L. Asiarcha, Gr.

Defn: One of the chiefs or pontiffs of the Roman province of Asia,
who had the superintendence of the public games and religious rites.
Milner.

ASIATIC
A`si*at"ic, a. Etym: [L. Asiaticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Asia or to its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: A native, or one of the people, of Asia.

ASIATICISM
A`si*at"i*cism, n.

Defn: Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics.

ASIDE
A*side", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + side.]

1. On, or to, one side; out of a straight line, course, or direction;
at a little distance from the rest; out of the way; apart.
Thou shalt set aside that which is full. 2 Kings iv. 4.
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king. Shak.
The flames were blown aside. Dryden.

2. Out of one's thoughts; off; away; as, to put aside gloomy
thoughts. "Lay aside every weight." Heb. xii. 1.

3. So as to be heard by others; privately.
Then lords and ladies spake aside. Sir W. Scott.
To set aside (Law), to annul or defeat the effect or operation of, by
a subsequent decision of the same or of a superior tribunal; to
declare of no authority; as, to set aside a verdict or a judgment.

ASIDE
A*side", n.

Defn: Something spoken aside; as, a remark made by a stageplayer
which the other players are not supposed to hear.

ASILUS
A*si"lus, n. Etym: [L., a gadfly.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including the
bee killer and robber fly.

ASINEGO; ASSINEGO
As`i*ne"go, As`si*ne"go, n. Etym: [Sp. asnico, dim. of asno an ass.]

Defn: A stupid fellow. [Obs.] Shak.

ASININE
As"i*nine, a. Etym: [L. asininus, fr. asinus ass. See Ass.]

Defn: Of or belonging to, or having the qualities of, the ass, as
stupidity and obstinacy. "Asinine nature." B. Jonson. "Asinine
feast." Milton.

ASININITY
As`i*nin"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being asinine; stupidity combined with
obstinacy.

ASIPHONATE
A*si"phon*ate, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Destitute of a siphon or breathing tube; -- said of many
bivalve shells.
 -- n.

Defn: An asiphonate mollusk.

ASIPHONEA; ASIPHONATA; ASIPHONIDA
As`i*pho"ne*a, A*si`pho*na"ta, As`i*phon"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr.
Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of bivalve mollusks destitute of siphons, as the
oyster; the asiphonate mollusks.

ASITIA
A*si"ti*a, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want of appetite; loathing of food.

ASK
Ask, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Asked; p. pr. & vb. n. Asking.] Etym: [OE.
asken, ashen, axien, AS. ascian, acsian; akin to OS. escon, OHG.
eiscon, Sw. aska, Dan. æske, D. eischen, G. heischen, Lith. jëskóti,
OSlav. iskati to seek, Skr. ish to desire. *5.]

1. To request; to seek to obtain by words; to petition; to solicit; -
- often with of, in the sense of from, before the person addressed.
Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God. Judg. xviii. 5.
If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye
will, and it shall be done unto you. John xv. 7.

2. To require, demand, claim, or expect, whether by way of
remuneration or return, or as a matter of necessity; as, what price
do you ask
Ask me never so much dowry. Gen. xxxiv. 12.
To whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more. Luke
xii. 48.
An exigence of state asks a much longer time to conduct a design to
maturity. Addison.

3. To interrogate or inquire of or concerning; to put a question to
or about; to question.
He is of age; ask him: he shall speak for himself. John ix. 21.
He asked the way to Chester. Shak.

4. To invite; as, to ask one to an entertainment.

5. To publish in church for marriage; -- said of both the banns and
the persons. Fuller.

Syn.
 -- To beg; request; seek; petition; solicit; entreat; beseech;
implore; crave; require; demand; claim; exhibit; inquire;
interrogate. See Beg.

ASK
Ask, v. i.

1. To request or petition; -- usually folllowed by for; as, to ask
for bread.
Ask, and it shall be given you. Matt. vii. 7.

2. To make inquiry, or seek by request; -- sometimes followed by
after.
Wherefore . . . dost ask after my name Gen. xxxii. 29.

ASK
Ask, n. Etym: [See 2d Asker.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A water newt. [Scot. & North of Eng.]

ASKANCE; ASKANT
A*skance", A*skant", adv. Etym: [Cf. D. schuin, schuins, sideways,
schuiven to shove, schuinte slope. Cf. Asquint.]

Defn: Sideways; obliquely; with a side glance; with disdain, envy, or
suspicion.
They dart away; they wheel askance. Beattie.
My palfrey eyed them askance. Landor.
Both . . . were viewed askance by authority. Gladstone.

ASKANCE
A*skance", v. t.

Defn: To turn aside. [Poet.]
O, how are they wrapped in with infamies That from their own misdeeds
askance their eyes! Shak.

ASKER
Ask"er, n.

Defn: One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer. Shak.

ASKER
Ask"er, n. Etym: [A corruption of AS. a lizard, newt.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An ask; a water newt. [Local Eng.]

ASKEW
A*skew", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + skew.]

Defn: Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimes
indicating scorn, or contempt, or entry. Spenser.

ASKING
Ask"ing, n.

1. The act of inquiring or requesting; a petition; solicitation.
Longfellow.

2. The publishing of banns.

ASLAKE
A*slake", v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. aslacian, slacian, to slacken. Cf.
Slake.]

Defn: To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish.
[Archaic] Chaucer.

ASLANT
A*slant", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + slant.]

Defn: Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely.
[The shaft] drove through his neck aslant. Dryden.

ASLANT
A*slant", prep.

Defn: In a slanting direction over; athwart.
There is a willow grows aslant a brook. Shak.

ASLEEP
A*sleep", a. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + sleep.]

1. In a state of sleep; in sleep; dormant.
Fast asleep the giant lay supine. Dryden.
By whispering winds soon lulled asleep. Milton.

2. In the sleep of the grave; dead.
Concerning them which are asleep . . . sorrow not, even as others
which have no hope. 1 Thess. iv. 13.

3. Numbed, and, usually, tingling. Udall.
Leaning long upon any part maketh it numb, and, as we call it,
asleep. Bacon.

ASLOPE
A*slope", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + slope.]

Defn: Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction;
sloping. "Set them not upright, but aslope." Bacon.

ASLUG
A*slug", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + slug to move slowly.]

Defn: Sluggishly. [Obs.] Fotherby.

ASMEAR
A*smear", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + smear.]

Defn: Smeared over. Dickens.

ASMONEAN
As`mo*ne"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the patriotic Jewish family to which the
Maccabees belonged; Maccabean; as, the Asmonean dynasty. [Written
also Asmonæan.]

ASMONEAN
As`mo*ne"an, n.

Defn: One of the Asmonean family. The Asmoneans were leaders and
rulers of the Jews from 168 to 35 b. c.

ASOAK
A*soak", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + soak.]

Defn: Soaking.

ASOMATOUS
A*so"ma*tous, a. Etym: [L. asomatus, Gr.

Defn: Without a material body; incorporeal. Todd.

ASONANT
As"o*nant, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + sonant.]

Defn: Not sounding or sounded. [R.] C. C. Felton.

ASP
Asp, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Aspen. "Trembling poplar or asp." Martyn.

ASP
Asp, n. Etym: [L. aspis, fr. Gr. aspe, F. aspic.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, hooded, poisonous serpent of Egypt and adjacent
countries, whose bite is often fatal. It is the Naja haje. The name
is also applied to other poisonous serpents, esp. to Vipera aspis of
southern Europe. See Haje.

ASPALATHUS
As*pal"a*thus, n. Etym: [L. aspalathus, Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A thorny shrub yielding a fragrant oil. Ecclus. xxiv. 15.
(b) A genus of plants of the natural order Leguminosæ. The species
are chiefly natives of the Cape of Good Hope.

ASPARAGINE
As*par"a*gine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. asparagine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, nitrogenous, crystallizable substance, C4H8N2O3+H2O,
found in many plants, and first obtained from asparagus. It is
believed to aid in the disposition of nitrogenous matter throughout
the plant; -- called also altheine.

ASPARAGINOUS
As`pa*rag"i*nous, a.

Defn: Pertaining or allied to, or resembling, asparagus; having
shoots which are eaten like asparagus; as, asparaginous vegetables.

ASPARAGUS
As*par"a*gus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. prong, sprout, Pers. asparag,
Lith. spurgas sprout, Skr. sphurj to swell. Perh. the Greek borrowed
from the Persian. Cf. Sparrowgrass.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of perennial plants belonging to the natural order
Liliaceæ, and having erect much branched stems, and very slender
branchlets which are sometimes mistaken for leaves. Asparagus
racemosus is a shrubby climbing plant with fragrant flowers.
Specifically: The Asparagus officinalis, a species cultivated in
gardens.

2. The young and tender shoots of A. officinalis, which form a
valuable and well-known article of food.

Note: This word was formerly pronounced sparrowgrass; but this
pronunciation is now confined exclusively to uneducated people.
Asparagus beetle (Zoöl.), a small beetle (Crioceris asparagi)
injurious to asparagus.

ASPARTIC
As*par"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived, asparagine; as, aspartic acid.

ASPECT
As"pect, n. Etym: [L. aspectus, fr. aspicere, aspectum, to look at;
ad + spicere, specere, to look, akin to E. spy.]

1. The act of looking; vision; gaze; glance. [R.] "The basilisk
killeth by aspect." Bacon.
His aspect was bent on the ground. Sir W. Scott.

2. Look, or particular appearance of the face; countenance; mien;
air. "Serious in aspect." Dryden.
[Craggs] with aspect open shall erect his head. Pope.

3. Appearance to the eye or the mind; look; view. "The aspect of
affairs." Macaulay.
The true aspect of a world lying in its rubbish. T. Burnet.

4. Position or situation with regard to seeing; that position which
enables one to look in a particular direction; position in relation
to the points of the compass; as, a house has a southern aspect, that
is, a position which faces the south.

5. Prospect; outlook. [Obs.]
This town affords a good aspect toward the hill from whence we
descended. Evelyn.

6. (Astrol.)

Defn: The situation of planets or stars with respect to one another,
or the angle formed by the rays of light proceeding from them and
meeting at the eye; the joint look of planets or stars upon each
other or upon the earth. Milton.

Note: The aspects which two planets can assume are five; sextile,

7. (Astrol.)

Defn: The influence of the stars for good or evil; as, an ill aspect.
Shak.
The astrologers call the evil influences of the stars evil aspects.
Bacon. Aspect of a plane (Geom.), the direction of the plane.

ASPECT
As*pect", v. t. Etym: [L. aspectare, v. intens. of aspicere. See
Aspect, n.]

Defn: To behold; to look at. [Obs.]

ASPECTABLE
As*pect"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. aspectabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being; visible. "The aspectable world." Ray.
"Aspectable stars." Mrs. Browning.

ASPECTANT
As*pect"ant, a. (Her.)

Defn: Facing each other.

ASPECTED
As*pect"ed, a.

Defn: Having an aspect. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

ASPECTION
As*pec"tion, n. Etym: [L. aspectio, fr. aspicere to look at.]

Defn: The act of viewing; a look. [Obs.]

ASPECT RATIO
Aspect ratio. (Aëronautics)

Defn: The ratio of the long to the short side of an aëroplane,
aërocurve, or wing.

ASPEN; ASP
Asp"en, Asp, n. Etym: [AS. æsp, æps; akin to OHG. aspa, Icel. ösp,
Dan. æsp, Sw. asp, D. esp, G. espe, äspe, aspe; cf. Lettish apsa,
Lith. apuszis.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of several species of poplar bearing this name, especially
the Populus tremula, so called from the trembling of its leaves,
which move with the slightest impulse of the air.

ASPEN
Asp"en, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the aspen, or resembling it; made of aspen
wood.
Nor aspen leaves confess the gentlest breeze. Gay.

ASPER
As"per, a. Etym: [OE. aspre, OF. aspre, F. âpre, fr. L. asper rough.]

Defn: Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce. [Archaic] "An
asper sound." Bacon.

ASPER
As"per, n. Etym: [L. spiritus asper rough breathing.] (Greek Gram.)

Defn: The rough breathing; a mark placed over an initial vowel sound
or over h before it; thus hws, pronounced h, hrj'twr, pronounced
hra\'b6t.

ASPER
As"per, n. Etym: [F. aspre or It. aspro, fr. MGr.

Defn: A Turkish money of account (formerly a coin), of little value;
the 120th part of a piaster.

ASPERATE
As"per*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Asperated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Asperating.] Etym: [L. asperatus, p. p. of asperare, fr. asper
rough.]

Defn: To make rough or uneven.
The asperated part of its surface. Boyle.

ASPERATION
As`per*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of asperating; a making or becoming rough. Bailey.

ASPERGES
As*per"ges, n. Etym: [L., Thou shalt sprinkle.] (R. C. Ch.)
(a) The service or ceremony of sprinkling with holy water.
(b) The brush or instrument used in sprinkling holy water; an
aspergill.

ASPERGILL; ASPERGILLUM
As"per*gill, As`per*gil"lum, n. Etym: [LL. aspergillum, fr. L.
aspergere. See Asperse, v. t.]

1. The brush used in the Roman Catholic church for sprinkling holy
water on the people. [Also written aspergillus.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Wateringpot shell.

ASPERGILLIFORM
As`per*gil"li*form, a. Etym: [Aspergillum + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling the aspergillum in form; as, an aspergilliform
stigma. Gray.

ASPERIFOLIATE; ASPERIFOLIOUS
As`per*i*fo"li*ate, As`per*i*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [L. asper rough +
folium leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having rough leaves.

Note: By some applied to the natural order now called Boraginaceæ or
borageworts.

ASPERITY
As*per"i*ty, n.; pl. Asperities. Etym: [L. asperitas, fr. asper
rough: cf. F. aspérité.]

1. Roughness of surface; unevenness; -- opposed to smoothness. "The
asperities of dry bodies." Boyle.

2. Roughness or harshness of sound; that quality which grates upon
the ear; raucity.

3. Roughness to the taste; sourness; tartness.

4. Moral roughness; roughness of manner; severity; crabbedness;
harshness; -- opposed to mildness. "Asperity of character." Landor.
It is no very cynical asperity not to confess obligations where no
benefit has been received. Johnson.

5. Sharpness; disagreeableness; difficulty.
The acclivities and asperities of duty. Barrow.

Syn.
 -- Acrimony; moroseness; crabbedness; harshness; sourness; tartness.
See Acrimony.

ASPERMATOUS
A*sper"ma*tous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Aspermous.

ASPERMOUS
A*sper"mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of seeds; aspermatous.

ASPERNE
A*sperne", v. t. Etym: [L. aspernari; a (ab) + spernari.]

Defn: To spurn; to despise. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

ASPEROUS
As"per*ous, a. Etym: [See Asper, a.]

Defn: Rough; uneven. Boyle.

ASPERSE
As*perse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aspersed; p. pr. & vb. n. Aspersing.]
Etym: [L. aspersus, p. p. of aspergere to scatter, sprinkle; ad +
spargere to strew. See Sparse.]

1. To sprinkle, as water or dust, upon anybody or anything, or to
besprinkle any one with a liquid or with dust. Heywood.

2. To bespatter with foul reports or false and injurious charges; to
tarnish in point of reputation or good name; to slander or
calumniate; as, to asperse a poet or his writings; to asperse a man's
character.
With blackest crimes aspersed. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- To slander; defame; detract from; calumniate; vilify.
 -- To Asperse, Defame, Slander, Calumniate. These words have in
common the idea of falsely assailing the character of another. To
asperse is figuratively to cast upon a character hitherto unsullied
the imputation of blemishes or faults which render it offensive or
loathsome. To defame is to detract from a man's honor and reputation
by charges calculated to load him with infamy. Slander
(etymologically the same as scandal) and calumniate, from the Latin,
have in common the sense of circulating reports to a man's injury
from unworthy or malicious motives. Men asperse their neighbors by
malignant insinuations; they defame by advancing charges to blacken
or sully their fair fame; they slander or calumniate by spreading
injurious reports which are false, or by magnifying slight faults
into serious errors or crimes.

ASPERSED
As*persed", a.

1. (Her.)

Defn: Having an indefinite number of small charges scattered or
strewed over the surface. Cussans.

2. Bespattered; slandered; calumniated. Motley.

ASPERSER
As*pers"er, n.

Defn: One who asperses; especially, one who vilifies another.

ASPERSION
As*per"sion, n. Etym: [L. aspersio, fr. aspergere: cf. F. aspersion.]

1. A sprinkling, as with water or dust, in a literal sense.
Behold an immersion, not and aspersion. Jer. Taylor.

2. The spreading of calumniations reports or charges which tarnish
reputation, like the bespattering of a body with foul water; calumny.
Every candid critic would be ashamed to cast wholesale aspersions on
the entire body of professional teachers. Grote.
Who would by base aspersions blot thy virtue. Dryden.

ASPERSIVE
As*pers"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to asperse; defamatory; slanderous.
 -- As*pers"ive*ly, adv.

ASPERSOIR
As`per`soir", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An aspergill.

ASPERSORIUM
As`per*so"ri*um, n.; pl. Aspplwsoria. Etym: [LL. See Asperse.]

1. The stoup, basin, or other vessel for holy water in Roman Catholic
churches.

2. A brush for sprinkling holy water; an aspergill.

ASPHALT; ASPHALTUM
As"phalt, As*phal"tum, n. Etym: [Gr. asphalte.]

1. Mineral pitch, Jews' pitch, or compact native bitumen. It is
brittle, of a black or brown color and high luster on a surface of
fracture; it melts and burns when heated, leaving no residue. It
occurs on the surface and shores of the Dead Sea, which is therefore
called Asphaltites, or the Asphaltic Lake. It is found also in many
parts of Asia, Europe, and America. See Bitumen.

2. A composition of bitumen, pitch, lime, and gravel, used for
forming pavements, and as a water-proof cement for bridges, roofs,
etc.; asphaltic cement. Artificial asphalt is prepared from coal tar,
lime, sand, etc. Asphalt stone, Asphalt rock, a limestone found
impregnated with asphalt.

ASPHALT
As"phalt, v. t.

Defn: To cover with asphalt; as, to asphalt a roof; asphalted
streets.

ASPHALTE
As`phalte", n. Etym: [F. See Asphalt.]

Defn: Asphaltic mastic or cement. See Asphalt, 2.

ASPHALTIC
As*phal"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, of the nature of, or containing, asphalt;
bituminous. "Asphaltic pool." "Asphaltic slime." Milton.

ASPHALTITE
As*phal"tite, a.

Defn: Asphaltic.

ASPHALTITE
As*phal"tite, a.

Defn: Asphaltic. Bryant.

ASPHALTUS
As*phal"tus, n.

Defn: See Asphalt.

ASPHODEL
As"pho*del, n. Etym: [L. asphodelus, Gr. Daffodil.] (Bot.)

Defn: A general name for a plant of the genus Asphodelus. The
asphodels are hardy perennial plants, several species of which are
cultivated for the beauty of their flowers.

Note: The name is also popularly given to species of other genera.
The asphodel of the early English and French poets was the daffodil.
The asphodel of the Greek poets is supposed to be the Narcissus
poeticus. Dr. Prior.
Pansies, and violets, and asphodel. Milton.

ASPHYCTIC
As*phyc"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to asphyxia.

ASPHYXIA; ASPHYXY
As*phyx"i*a, As*phyx"y, n. Etym: [NL. asphyxia, fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Apparent death, or suspended animation; the condition which
results from interruption of respiration, as in suffocation or
drowning, or the inhalation of irrespirable gases.

ASPHYXIAL
As*phyx"i*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to asphyxia; as, asphyxial phenomena.

ASPHYXIATE
As*phyx"i*ate, v. t.

Defn: To bring to a state of asphyxia; to suffocate.

Note: [Used commonly in the past pple.]

ASPHYXIATED; ASPHYXIED
As*phyx"i*a`ted, As*phyx"ied, p. p.

Defn: In a state of asphyxia; suffocated.

ASPHYXIATION
As*phyx`i*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of causing asphyxia; a state of asphyxia.

ASPIC
As"pic, n. Etym: [F. See Asp.]

1. The venomous asp. [Chiefly poetic] Shak. Tennyson.

2. A piece of ordnance carrying a 12 pound shot. [Obs.]

ASPIC
As"pic, n. Etym: [F., a corrupt. of spic (OF. espi, F. épi), L. spica
(spicum, spicus), ear, spike. See Spike.]

Defn: A European species of lavender (Lavandula spica), which
produces a volatile oil. See Spike.

ASPIC
As"pic, n. Etym: [F., prob. fr. aspic an asp.]

Defn: A savory meat jelly containing portions of fowl, game, fish,
hard boiled eggs, etc. Thackeray.

ASPIDOBRANCHIA
As`pi*do*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Gastropoda, with limpetlike shells, including the
abalone shells and keyhole limpets.

ASPIRANT
As*pir"ant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. aspirant, p. pr. of aspirer. See
Aspire.]

Defn: Aspiring.

ASPIRANT
As*pir"ant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aspirant.]

Defn: One who aspires; one who eagerly seeks some high position or
object of attainment.
In consequence of the resignations . . . the way to greatness was
left clear to a new set of aspirants. Macaulay.

ASPIRATE
As"pi*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Aspirated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Aspirating.] Etym: [L. aspiratus, p. p. of aspirare to breathe toward
or upon, to add the breathing h; ad + spirare to breathe, blow. Cf.
Aspire.]

Defn: To pronounce with a breathing, an aspirate, or an h sound; as,
we aspirate the words horse and house; to aspirate a vowel or a
liquid consonant.

ASPIRATE
As"pi*rate, n.

1. A sound consisting of, or characterized by, a breath like the
sound of h; the breathing h or a character representing such a sound;
an aspirated sound.

2. A mark of aspiration used in Greek; the asper, or rough breathing.
Bentley.

3. An elementary sound produced by the breath alone; a surd, or
nonvocal consonant; as, f, th in thin, etc.

ASPIRATE; ASPIRATED
As"pi*rate, As"pi*ra"ted, a. Etym: [L. aspiratus, p. p.]

Defn: Pronounced with the h sound or with audible breath.
But yet they are not aspirate, i. e., with such an aspiration as h.
Holder.

ASPIRATION
As`pi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. aspiratio, fr. aspirare: cf. F.
aspiration.]

1. The act of aspirating; the pronunciation of a letter with a full
or strong emission of breath; an aspirated sound.
If aspiration be defined to be an impetus of breathing. Wilkins.

2. The act of breathing; a breath; an inspiration.

3. The act of aspiring of a ardently desiring; strong wish; high
desire. "Aspirations after virtue." Johnson.
Vague aspiration after military renown. Prescott.

ASPIRATOR
As"pi*ra`tor, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus for passing air or gases through or over certain
liquids or solids, or for exhausting a closed vessel, by means of
suction.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for the evacuation of the fluid contents of
tumors or collections of blood.

ASPIRATORY
As*pir"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to breathing; suited to the inhaling of air

ASPIRE
As*pire", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Aspired; p. pr. & vb. n. Aspiring.]
Etym: [F. aspirer, L. aspirare. See Aspirate, v. t.]

1. To desire with eagerness; to seek to attain something high or
great; to pant; to long; -- followed by to or after, and rarely by
at; as, to aspire to a crown; to aspire after immorality.
Aspiring to be gods, if angels fell; Aspiring to be angels, men
rebel. Pope.

2. To rise; to ascend; to tower; to soar.
My own breath still foments the fire, Which flames as high as fancy
can aspire. Waller.

ASPIRE
As*pire", v. t.

Defn: To aspire to; to long for; to try to reach; to mount to. [Obs.]
That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds. Shak.

ASPIRE
As*pire", n.

Defn: Aspiration. [Obs.] Chapman.

ASPIREMENT
As*pire"ment, n.

Defn: Aspiration. [Obs.]

ASPIRER
As*pir"er, n.

Defn: One who aspires.

ASPIRIN
As"pi*rin, n. (Pharm.)

Defn: A white crystalline compound of acetyl and salicylic acid used
as a drug for the salicylic acid liberated from it in the intestines.

ASPIRING
As*pir"ing, a.

Defn: That aspires; as, an Aspiring mind.
 -- As*pir"ing*ly, adv.
 -- As*pir"ing*ness, n.

ASPISH
Asp"ish, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, an asp.

ASPORTATION
As`por*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. asportatio, fr. asportare to carry away;
abs = ab + portare to bear, carry.] (Law)

Defn: The felonious removal of goods from the place where they were
deposited.

Note: It is adjudged to be larceny, though the goods are not carried
from the house or apartment. Blackstone.

ASPRAWL
A*sprawl", adv. & a.

Defn: Sprawling.

ASQUAT
A*squat", adv. & a.

Defn: Squatting.

ASQUINT
A*squint", adv. Etym: [Cf. Askant, Squint.]

Defn: With the eye directed to one side; not in the straight line of
vision; obliquely; awry, so as to see distortedly; as, to look
asquint.

ASS
Ass, n. Etym: [OE. asse, AS. assa; akin to Icel. asni, W. asen, asyn,
L. asinus, dim. aselus, Gr. esol, OHG. esil, G. esel, Goth. asilus,
Dan. æsel, Lith. asilas, Bohem. osel, Pol. osiel. The word is prob.
of Semitic origin; cf. Heb. ath she ass. Cf. Ease.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A quadruped of the genus Equus (E. asinus), smaller than the
horse, and having a peculiarly harsh bray and long ears. The tame or
domestic ass is patient, slow, and sure-footed, and has become the
type of obstinacy and stupidity. There are several species of wild
asses which are swift-footed.

2. A dull, heavy, stupid fellow; a dolt. Shak. Asses' Bridge. Etym:
[L. pons asinorum.] The fifth proposition of the first book of
Euclid, "The angles at the base of an isosceles triangle are equal to
one another." [Sportive] "A schoolboy, stammering out his Asses'
Bridge." F. Harrison.
 -- To make an ass of one's self, to do or say something very foolish
or absurd.

ASSAFOETIDA
As`sa*foet"i*da, n.

Defn: Same as Asafetida.

ASSAGAI; ASSEGAI
As"sa*gai, As"se*gai, n. Etym: [Pg. azagaia, Sp. azagaya, fr. a
Berber word. Cf. Lancegay.]

Defn: A spear used by tribes in South Africa as a missile and for
stabbing, a kind of light javelin.

ASSAI
As*sa"i. Etym: [It., fr. L. ad + satis enough. See Assets.] (Mus.)

Defn: A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow.

ASSAIL
As*sail", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Assailing.]
Etym: [OE. assailen, asailen, OF. asaillir, assailler, F. assaillir;
(L. ad) + saillir to burst out, project, fr. L. salire to leap,
spring; cf. L. assilire to leap or spring upon. See Sally.]

1. To attack with violence, or in a vehement and hostile manner; to
assault; to molest; as, to assail a man with blows; to assail a city
with artillery.
No rude noise mine ears assailing. Cowper.
No storm can now assail The charm he wears within. Keble.

2. To encounter or meet purposely with the view of mastering, as an
obstacle, difficulty, or the like.
The thorny wilds the woodmen fierce assail. Pope.

3. To attack morally, or with a view to produce changes in the
feelings, character, conduct, existing usages, institutions; to
attack by words, hostile influence, etc.; as, to assail one with
appeals, arguments, abuse, ridicule, and the like.
The papal authority . . . assailed. Hallam.
They assailed him with keen invective; they assailed him with still
keener irony. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To attack; assault; invade; encounter; fall upon. See Attack.

ASSAILABLE
As*sail"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being assailed.

ASSAILANT
As*sail"ant, a. Etym: [F. assaillant, p. pr. of assaillir.]

Defn: Assailing; attacking. Milton.

ASSAILANT
As*sail"ant, n. Etym: [F. assaillant.]

Defn: One who, or that which, assails, attacks, or assaults; an
assailer.
An assailant of the church. Macaulay.

ASSAILER
As*sail"er, n.

Defn: One who assails.

ASSAILMENT
As*sail"ment, n.

Defn: The act or power of assailing; attack; assault. [R.]
His most frequent assailment was the headache. Johnson.

ASSAMAR
As"sa*mar, n. Etym: [L. assare to roast + amarus, bitter.] (Chem.)

Defn: The peculiar bitter substance, soft or liquid, and of a yellow
color, produced when meat, bread, gum, sugar, starch, and the like,
are roasted till they turn brown.

ASSAMESE
As`sam*ese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Assam, a province of British India, or to
its inhabitants.
 -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Assam.

ASSAPAN; ASSAPANIC
As`sa*pan", As`sa*pan"ic, n. Etym: [Prob. Indian name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American flying squirrel (Pteromys volucella).

ASSART
As*sart", n. Etym: [OF. essart the grubbing up of trees, fr. essarter
to grub up or clear ground of bushes, shrubs, trees, etc., fr. LL.
exartum, exartare, for exsaritare; L. ex + sarire, sarrire, saritum,
to hoe, weed.]

1. (Old Law)

Defn: The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thus
destroying the tickets or coverts of a forest. Spelman. Cowell.

2. A piece of land cleared of trees and bushes, and fitted for
cultivation; a clearing. Ash. Assart land, forest land cleared of
woods and brush.

ASSART
As*sart", v. t.

Defn: To grub up, as trees; to commit an assart upon; as, to assart
land or trees. Ashmole.

ASSASSIN
As*sas"sin, n. Etym: [F. (cf. It. assassino), fr. Ar. one who has
drunk of the hashish. Under its influence the Assassins of the East,
followers of the Shaikh al-Jabal (Old Man of the Mountain), were said
to commit the murders required by their chief.]

Defn: One who kills, or attempts to kill, by surprise or secret
assault; one who treacherously murders any one unprepared for
defense.

ASSASSIN
As*sas"sin, v. t.

Defn: To assassinate. [Obs.] Stillingfleet.

ASSASSINATE
As*sas"sin*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assassinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Assassinating.] Etym: [LL. assassinatus, p. p. of assassinare.]

1. To kill by surprise or secret assault; to murder by treacherous
violence.
Help, neighbors, my house is broken open by force, and I am ravished,
and like to be assassinated. Dryden.

2. To assail with murderous intent; hence, by extended meaning, to
maltreat exceedingly. [Archaic]
Your rhymes assassinate our fame. Dryden.
Such usage as your honorable lords Afford me, assassinated and
betrayed. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To kill; murder; slay. See Kill.

ASSASSINATE
As*sas"sin*ate, n. Etym: [F. assassinat.]

1. An assassination, murder, or murderous assault. [Obs.]
If I had made an assassinate upon your father. B. Jonson.

2. An assassin. [Obs.] Dryden.

ASSASSINATION
As*sas`si*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of assassinating; a killing by treacherous violence.

ASSASSINATOR
As*sas"si*na`tor, n.

Defn: An assassin.

ASSASSINOUS
As*sas"sin*ous, a.

Defn: Murderous. Milton.

ASSASTION
As*sas"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. assatio, fr. L. assare to roast.]

Defn: Roasting. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ASSAULT
As*sault", n. Etym: [OE. asaut, assaut, OF. assaut, asalt, F. assaut,
LL. assaltus; L. ad + saltus a leaping, a springing, salire to leap.
See Assail.]

1. A violent onset or attack with physical means, as blows, weapons,
etc.; an onslaught; the rush or charge of an attacking force; onset;
as, to make assault upon a man, a house, or a town.
The Spanish general prepared to renew the assault. Prescott.
Unshaken bears the assault Of their most dreaded foe, the strong
southwest. Wordsworth.

2. A violent onset or attack with moral weapons, as words, arguments,
appeals, and the like; as, to make an assault on the prerogatives of
a prince, or on the constitution of a government. Clarendon.

3. (Law)

Defn: An apparently violent attempt, or willful offer with force or
violence, to do hurt to another; an attempt or offer to beat another,
accompanied by a degree of violence, but without touching his person,
as by lifting the fist, or a cane, in a threatening manner, or by
striking at him, and missing him. If the blow aimed takes effect, it
is a battery. Blackstone. Wharton.
Practically, however, the word assault is used to include the
battery. Mozley & W.

Syn.
 -- Attack; invasion; incursion; descent; onset; onslaught; charge;
storm.

ASSAULT
As*sault", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assaulted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Assaulting.] Etym: [From Assault, n.: cf. OF. assaulter, LL.
assaltare.]

1. To make an assault upon, as by a sudden rush of armed men; to
attack with unlawful or insulting physical violence or menaces.
Insnared, assaulted, overcome, led bound. Milton.

2. To attack with moral means, or with a view of producing moral
effects; to attack by words, arguments, or unfriendly measures; to
assail; as, to assault a reputation or an administration.
Before the gates, the cries of babes newborn, . . . Assault his ears.
Dryden.

Note: In the latter sense, assail is more common.

Syn.
 -- To attack; assail; invade; encounter; storm; charge. See Attack.

ASSAULTABLE
As*sault"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being assaulted.

ASSAULTER
As*sault"er, n.

Defn: One who assaults, or violently attacks; an assailant. E. Hall.

ASSAY
As*say", n. Etym: [OF. asai, essai, trial, F. essa. See Essay, n.]

1. Trial; attempt; essay. [Obs.] Chaucer.
I am withal persuaded that it may prove much more easy in the assay
than it now seems at distance. Milton.

2. Examination and determination; test; as, an assay of bread or
wine. [Obs.]
This can not be, by no assay of reason. Shak.

3. Trial by danger or by affliction; adventure; risk; hardship; state
of being tried. [Obs.]
Through many hard assays which did betide. Spenser.

4. Tested purity or value. [Obs.]
With gold and pearl of rich assay. Spenser.

5. (Metallurgy)

Defn: The act or process of ascertaining the proportion of a
particular metal in an ore or alloy; especially, the determination of
the proportion of gold or silver in bullion or coin.

6. The alloy or metal to be assayed. Ure. Assay and essay are
radically the same word; but modern usage has appropriated assay
chiefly to experiments in metallurgy, and essay to intellectual and
bodily efforts. See Essay.]

Note: Assay is used adjectively or as the first part of a compound;
as, assay balance, assay furnace. Assay master, an officer who assays
or tests gold or silver coin or bullion.
 -- Assay ton, a weight of 29.1662/3 grams.

ASSAY
As*say", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Assaying.]
Etym: [OF. asaier, essaier, F. essayer, fr. essai. See Assay, n.,
Essay, v.]

1. To try; to attempt; to apply. [Obs. or Archaic]
To-night let us assay our plot. Shak.
Soft words to his fierce passion she assayed. Milton.

2. To affect. [Obs.]
When the heart is ill assayed. Spenser.

3. To try tasting, as food or drink. [Obs.]

4. To subject, as an ore, alloy, or other metallic compound, to
chemical or metallurgical examination, in order to determine the
amount of a particular metal contained in it, or to ascertain its
composition.

ASSAY
As*say", v. i.

Defn: To attempt, try, or endeavor. [Archaic. In this sense essay is
now commonly used.]
She thrice assayed to speak. Dryden.

ASSAYABLE
As*say"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be assayed.

ASSAYER
As*say"er, n.

Defn: One who assays. Specifically: One who examines metallic ores or
compounds, for the purpose of determining the amount of any
particular metal in the same, especially of gold or silver.

ASSAYING
As*say"ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of testing, esp. of analyzing or examining
metals and ores, to determine the proportion of pure metal.

ASSAY POUND
As"say pound.

Defn: A small standard weight used in assaying bullion, etc.,
sometimes equaling 0.5 gram, but varying with the assayer.

ASSAY TON
Assay ton.

Defn: A weight of 29.166 + grams used in assaying, for convenience.
Since it bears the same relation to the milligram that a ton of 2000
avoirdupois pounds does to the troy ounce, the weight in milligrams
of precious metal obtained from an assay ton of ore gives directly
the number of ounces to the ton.

ASSE
Asse, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama) of South Africa, valued
for its fur.

ASSECURATION
As`se*cu*ra"tion, n. Etym: [LL. assecuratio, fr. assecurare.]

Defn: Assurance; certainty. [Obs.]

ASSECURE
As`se*cure", v. t. Etym: [LL. assecurare.]

Defn: To make sure or safe; to assure. [Obs.] Hooker.

ASSECUTION
As`se*cu"tion, n. Etym: [F. assécution, fr. L. assequi to obtain; ad
+ sequi to follow.]

Defn: An obtaining or acquiring. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

ASSEGAI
As"se*gai, n.

Defn: Same as Assagai.

ASSEMBLAGE
As*sem"blage, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assemblage. See Assemble.]

1. The act of assembling, or the state o
In sweet assemblage every blooming grace. Fenton.

2. A collection of individuals, or of individuals, or of particular
things; as, a political assemblage; an assemblage of ideas.

Syn.
 -- Company; group; collection; concourse; gathering; meeting;
convention. Assemblage, Assembly. An assembly consists only of
persons; an assemblage may be composed of things as well as persons,
as, an assemblage of incoherent objects. Nor is every assemblage of
persons an assembly; since the latter term denotes a body who have
met, and are acting, in concert for some common end, such as to hear,
to deliberate, to unite in music, dancing, etc. An assemblage of
skaters on a lake, or of horse jockeys at a race course, is not an
assembly, but might be turned into one by collecting into a body with
a view to discuss and decide as to some object of common interest.

ASSEMBLANCE
As*sem"blance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. assemblance.]

1. Resemblance; likeness; appearance. [Obs.]
Care I for the . . . stature, bulk, and big assemblance of a man
Shak.

2. An assembling; assemblage. [Obs.]
To weete [know] the cause of their assemblance. Spenser.

ASSEMBLE
As*sem"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assembled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Assembling.] Etym: [F. assembler, fr. LL. assimulare to bring
together to collect; L. ad + simul together; akin to similis like,
Gr. same. Cf. Assimilate, Same.]

Defn: To collect into one place or body; to bring or call together;
to convene; to congregate.
Thither he assembled all his train. Milton.
All the men of Israel assembled themselves. 1 Kings viii. 2.

ASSEMBLE
As*sem"ble, v. i.

Defn: To meet or come together, as a number of individuals; to
convene; to congregate. Dryden.
The Parliament assembled in November. W. Massey.

ASSEMBLE
As*sem"ble, v. i.

Defn: To liken; to compare. [Obs.]
Bribes may be assembled to pitch. Latimer.

ASSEMBLER
As*sem"bler, n.

Defn: One who assembles a number of individuals; also, one of a
number assembled.

ASSEMBLY
As*sem"bly, n.; pl. Assemblies. Etym: [F. assemblée, fr. assembler.
See Assemble.]

1. A company of persons collected together in one place, and usually
for some common purpose, esp. for deliberation and legislation, for
worship, or for social entertainment.

2. A collection of inanimate objects. [Obs.] Howell.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A beat of the drum or sound of the bugle as a signal to troops
to assemble.

Note: In some of the United States, the legislature, or the popular
branch of it, is called the Assembly, or the General Assembly. In the
Presbyterian Church, the General Assembly is the highest
ecclesiastical tribunal, composed of ministers and ruling elders
delegated from each presbytery; as, the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church in the United States, or of Scotland. Assembly
room, a room in which persons assemble, especially for dancing.
 -- Unlawful assembly (Law), a meeting of three or more persons on a
common plan, in such a way as to cause a reasonable apprehension that
they will disturb the peace tumultuously.
 -- Westminster Assembly, a convocation, consisting chiefly of
divines, which, by act of Parliament, assembled July 1, 1643, and
remained in session some years. It framed the "Confession of Faith,"
the "Larger Catechism," and the "Shorter Catechism," which are still
received as authority by Presbyterians, and are substantially
accepted by Congregationalists.

Syn.
 -- See Assemblage.

ASSEMBLYMAN
As*sem"bly*man, n.; pl. Assemblymen.

Defn: A member of an assembly, especially of the lower branch of a
state legislature.

ASSENT
As*sent", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assented; p. pr. & vb. n. Assenting.]
Etym: [F. assentir, L. assentire, assentiri; ad + sentire to feel,
think. See Sense.]

Defn: To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement,
acquiescence, concurrence, or concession.
Who informed the governor . . . And the Jews also assented, saying
that these things were so. Acts xxiv. 9.
The princess assented to all that was suggested. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To yield; agree; acquiesce; concede; concur.

ASSENT
As*sent", n. Etym: [OE. assent, fr. assentir. See Assent, v.]

Defn: The act of assenting; the act of the mind in admitting or
agreeing to anything; concurrence with approval; consent; agreement;
acquiescence.
Faith is the assent to any proposition, on the credit of the
proposer. Locke.
The assent, if not the approbation, of the prince. Prescott.
Too many people read this ribaldry with assent and admiration.
Macaulay.
Royal assent, in England, the assent of the sovereign to a bill which
has passed both houses of Parliament, after which it becomes law.

Syn.
 -- Concurrence; acquiescence; approval; accord.
 -- Assent, Consent. Assent is an act of the understanding, consent
of the will or feelings. We assent to the views of others when our
minds come to the same conclusion with theirs as to what is true,
right, or admissible. We consent when there is such a concurrence of
our will with their desires and wishes that we decide to comply with
their requests. The king of England gives his assent, not his
consent, to acts of Parliament, because, in theory at least, he is
not governed by personal feelings or choice, but by a deliberate,
judgment as to the common good. We also use assent in cases where a
proposal is made which involves but little interest or feeling. A
lady may assent to a gentleman's opening the window; but if he offers
himself in marriage, he must wait for her consent.

ASSENTATION
As`sen*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. assentatio. See Assent, v.]

Defn: Insincere, flattering, or obsequious assent; hypocritical or
pretended concurrence.
Abject flattery and indiscriminate assentation degrade as much as
indiscriminate contradiction and noisy debate disgust. Ld.
Chesterfield.

ASSENTATOR
As`sen*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. assentari to assent constantly.]

Defn: An obsequious; a flatterer. [R.]

ASSENTATORY
As*sent"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Flattering; obsequious. [Obs.] -- As*sent"a*to*ri*ly, adv.
[Obs.]

ASSENTER
As*sent"er, n.

Defn: One who assents.

ASSENTIENT
As*sen"tient, a.

Defn: Assenting.

ASSENTING
As*sent"ing, a.

Defn: Giving or implying assent.
 -- As*sent"ing*ly, adv.

ASSENTIVE
As*sent"ive, a.

Defn: Giving assent; of the nature of assent; complying.
 -- As*sent"ive*ness, n.

ASSENTMENT
As*sent"ment, n.

Defn: Assent; agreement. [Obs.]

ASSERT
As*sert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Asserted; p. pr. & vb. n. Asserting.]
Etym: [L. assertus, p. p. of asserere to join or fasten to one's
self, claim, maintain; ad + serere to join or bind together. See
Series.]

1. To affirm; to declare with assurance, or plainly and strongly; to
state positively; to aver; to asseverate.
Nothing is more shameful . . . than to assert anything to be done
without a cause. Ray.

2. To maintain; to defend. [Obs. or Archaic]
That . . . I may assert Eternal Providence, And justify the ways of
God to men. Milton.
I will assert it from the scandal. Jer. Taylor.

3. To maintain or defend, as a cause or a claim, by words or
measures; to vindicate a claim or title to; as, to assert our rights
and liberties. To assert one's self, to claim or vindicate one's
rights or position; to demand recognition.

Syn.
 -- To affirm; aver; asseverate; maintain; protest; pronounce;
declare; vindicate.
 -- To Assert, Affirm, Maintain, Vindicate. To assert is to fasten to
one's self, and hence to claim. It is, therefore, adversative in its
nature. We assert our rights and privileges, or the cause of tree
institutions, as against opposition or denial. To affirm is to
declare as true. We assert boldly; we affirm positively. To maintain
is to uphold, and insist upon with earnestness, whatever we have once
asserted; as, to maintain one's cause, to maintain an argument, to
maintain the ground we have taken. To vindicate is to use language
and measures of the strongest kind, in defense of ourselves and those
for whom we act. We maintain our assertions by adducing proofs,
facts, or arguments; we are ready to vindicate our rights or
interests by the utmost exertion of our powers.

ASSERTER
As*sert"er, n.

Defn: One who asserts; one who avers pr maintains; an assertor.
The inflexible asserter of the rights of the church. Milman.

ASSERTION
As*ser"tion, n. Etym: [L. assertio, fr. asserere.]

1. The act of asserting, or that which is asserted; positive
declaration or averment; affirmation; statement asserted; position
advanced.
There is a difference between assertion and demonstration. Macaulay.

2. Maintenance; vindication; as, the assertion of one's rights or
prerogatives.

ASSERTIVE
As*sert"ive, a.

Defn: Positive; affirming confidently; affirmative; peremptory.
In a confident and assertive form. Glanvill.
As*sert"ive*ly, adv.
 -- As*sert"ive*ness, n.

ASSERTOR
As*sert"or, n. Etym: [L., fr. asserere.]

Defn: One who asserts or avers; one who maintains or vindicates a
claim or a right; an affirmer, supporter, or vindicator; a defender;
an asserter.
The assertors of liberty said not a word. Macaulay.
Faithful assertor of thy country's cause. Prior.

ASSERTORIAL
As`ser*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Asserting that a thing is; -- opposed to problematical and
apodeictical.

ASSERTORY
As*sert"o*ry, a. Etym: [L. assertorius, fr. asserere.]

Defn: Affirming; maintaining.
Arguments . . . assertory, not probatory. Jer. Taylor.
An assertory, not a promissory, declaration. Bentham.
A proposition is assertory, when it enounces what is known as actual.
Sir W. Hamilton.

ASSESS
As*sess", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assessed; p. pr. & vb. n. Assessing.]
Etym: [OF. assesser to regulate, settle, LL. assessare to value for
taxation, fr. L. assidere, supine as if assessum, to sit by, esp. of
judges in a court, in LL. to assess, tax. Cf. Assize, v., Cess.]

1. To value; to make a valuation or official estimate of for the
purpose of taxation.

2. To apportion a sum to be paid by (a person, a community, or an
estate), in the nature of a tax, fine, etc.; to impose a tax upon (a
person, an estate, or an income) according to a rate or
apportionment.

3. To determine and impose a tax or fine upon (a person, community,
estate, or income); to tax; as, the club assessed each member twenty-
five cents.

4. To fix or determine the rate or amount of.
This sum is assessed and raised upon individuals by commissioners in
the act. Blackstone.

ASSESSABLE
As*sess"a*ble, a.

Defn: Liable to be assessed or taxed; as, assessable property.

ASSESSEE
As`sess*ee", n.

Defn: One who is assessed.

ASSESSION
As*ses"sion, n. Etym: [L. assessio, fr. assid to sit by or near; ad +
sed to sit. See Sit.]

Defn: A sitting beside or near.

ASSESSMENT
As*sess"ment, n. Etym: [LL. assessamentum.]

1. The act of assessing; the act of determining an amount to be paid;
as, an assessment of damages, or of taxes; an assessment of the
members of a club.

2. A valuation of property or profits of business, for the purpose of
taxation; such valuation and an adjudging of the proper sum to be
levied on the property; as, an assessment of property or an
assessment on property.

Note: An assessment is a valuation made by authorized persons
according to their discretion, as opposed to a sum certain or
determined by law. It is a valuation of the property of those who are
to pay the tax, for the purpose of fixing the proportion which each
man shall pay. Blackstone. Burrill.

3. The specific sum levied or assessed.

4. An apportionment of a subscription for stock into successive
installments; also, one of these installments (in England termed a
"call"). [U. S.]

ASSESSOR
As*sess"or, n. Etym: [L., one who sits beside, the assistant of a
judge, fr. assid. See Assession. LL., one who arranges of determines
the taxes, fr. assid. See Assess, v., and cf. Cessor.]

1. One appointed or elected to assist a judge or magistrate with his
special knowledge of the subject to be decided; as legal assessors,
nautical assessors. Mozley & W.

2. One who sits by another, as next in dignity, or as an assistant
and adviser; an associate in office.
Whence to his Son, The assessor of his throne, he thus began. Milton.
With his ignorance, his inclinations, and his fancy, as his assessors
in judgment. I. Taylor.

3. One appointed to assess persons or property for the purpose of
taxation. Bouvier.

ASSESSORIAL
As`ses*so"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. assessorial, fr. L. assessor.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an assessor, or to a court of assessors.
Coxe.

ASSESSORSHIP
As*sess"or*ship, n.

Defn: The office or function of an assessor.

ASSET
As"set, n.

Defn: Any article or separable part of one's assets.

ASSETS
As"sets, n. pl. Etym: [OF. asez enough, F. assez, fr. L. ad + satis,
akin to Gr. saps full. Cf. Assai, Satisfy.]

1. (Law)
(a) Property of a deceased person, subject by law to the payment of
his debts and legacies; -- called assets because sufficient to render
the executor or administrator liable to the creditors and legatees,
so far as such goods or estate may extend. Story. Blackstone.
(b) Effects of an insolvent debtor or bankrupt, applicable to the
payment of debts.

2. The entire property of all sorts, belonging to a person, a
corporation, or an estate; as, the assets of a merchant or a trading
association; -- opposed to liabilities.

Note: In balancing accounts the assets are put on the Cr. side and
the debts on the Dr. side.

ASSEVER
As*sev"er, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OF. asseverer, fr. L. asseverare.]

Defn: See Asseverate. [Archaic]

ASSEVERATE
As*sev"er*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Asseverated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Asseverating.] Etym: [L. asseveratus, p. p. of asseverare to assert
seriously or earnestly; ad + severus. See Severe.]

Defn: To affirm or aver positively, or with solemnity.

Syn.
 -- To affirm; aver; protest; declare. See Affirm.

ASSEVERATION
As*sev`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. asseveratio.]

Defn: The act of asseverating, or that which is asseverated; positive
affirmation or assertion; solemn declaration.
Another abuse of the tongue I might add, -- vehement asseverations
upon slight and trivial occasions. Ray.

ASSEVERATIVE
As*sev"er*a*tive, a.

Defn: Characterized by asseveration; asserting positively.

ASSEVERATORY
As*sev"er*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Asseverative.

ASSIBILATE
As*sib"i*late, v. t. Etym: [L. assibilatus, p. p. of assibilare to
hiss out; ad + sibilare to hiss.]

Defn: To make sibilant; to change to a sibilant. J. Peile.

ASSIBILATION
As*sib`i*la"tion, n.

Defn: Change of a non-sibilant letter to a sibilant, as of -tion to -
shun, duke to ditch.

ASSIDEAN
As`si*de"an, n. Etym: [Heb. khasad to be pious.]

Defn: One of a body of devoted Jews who opposed the Hellenistic Jews,
and supported the Asmoneans.

ASSIDENT
As"si*dent, a. Etym: [L. assidens, p. pr. of assid to sit by: cf. F.
assident. See Assession.] (Med.)

Defn: Usually attending a disease, but not always; as, assident
signs, or symptoms.

ASSIDUATE
As*sid"u*ate, a. Etym: [L. assiduatus, p. p. of assiduare to use
assiduously.]

Defn: Unremitting; assiduous. [Obs.] "Assiduate labor." Fabyan.

ASSIDUITY
As`si*du"i*ty, n.; pl. Assiduities. Etym: [L. assiduitas: cf. F.
assiduite. See Assiduous.]

1. Constant or close application or attention, particularly to some
business or enterprise; diligence.
I have, with much pains and assiduity, qualified myself for a
nomenclator. Addison.

2. Studied and persevering attention to a person; -- usually in the
plural.

ASSIDUOUS
As*sid"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. assiduus, fr. assid to sit near or close;
ad + sed to sit. See Sit.]

1. Constant in application or attention; devoted; attentive;
unremitting.
She grows more assiduous in her attendance. Addison.

2. Performed with constant diligence or attention; unremitting;
persistent; as, assiduous labor.
To weary him with my assiduous cries. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Diligent; attentive; sedulous; unwearied; unintermitted;
persevering; laborious; indefatigable. As*sid"u*ous*ly, adv.
 -- As*sid"u*ous*ness, n.

ASSIEGE
As*siege", v. t. Etym: [OE. asegen, OF. asegier, F. assiéger, fr. LL.
assediare, assidiare, to besiege. See Siege.]

Defn: To besiege. [Obs.] "Assieged castles." Spenser.

ASSIEGE
As*siege", n.

Defn: A siege. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASSIENTIST
As`si*en"tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assientiste, Sp. asentista.]

Defn: A shareholder of the Assiento company; one of the parties to
the Assiento contract. Bancroft.

ASSIENTO
As`si*en"to, n. Etym: [Sp. asiento seat, contract or agreement, fr.
asentar to place on a chair, to adjust, to make an agreement; a (L.
ad) + sentar, a participial verb; as if there were a L. sedentare to
cause to sit, fr. sedens, sedentis, p. pr. of sed to sit.]

Defn: A contract or convention between Spain and other powers for
furnishing negro slaves for the Spanish dominions in America, esp.
the contract made with Great Britain in 1713.

ASSIGN
As*sign", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assigned; p. pr. & vb. n. Assigning.]
Etym: [OE. assignen, asignen, F. assigner, fr. L. assignare; ad +
signare to mark, mark out, designate, signum mark, sign. See Sign.]

1. To appoint; to allot; to apportion; to make over.
In the order I assign to them. Loudon.
The man who could feel thus was worthy of a better station than that
in which his lot had been assigned. Southey.
He assigned to his men their several posts. Prescott.

2. To fix, specify, select, or designate; to point out
authoritatively or exactly; as, to assign a limit; to assign counsel
for a prisoner; to assign a day for trial.
All as the dwarf the way to her assigned. Spenser.
It is not easy to assign a period more eventful. De Quincey.

3. (Law)

Defn: To transfer, or make over to another, esp. to transfer to, and
vest in, certain persons, called assignees, for the benefit of
creditors. To assign dower, to set out by metes and bounds the
widow's share or portion in an estate. Kent.

ASSIGN
As*sign", n. Etym: [From Assign, v.]

Defn: A thing pertaining or belonging to something else; an
appurtenance. [Obs.]
Six French rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdles,
hangers, and so. Shak.

ASSIGN
As*sign", n. Etym: [See Assignee.] (Law)

Defn: A person to whom property or an interest is transferred; as, a
deed to a man and his heirs and assigns.

ASSIGNABILITY
As*sign`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being assignable.

ASSIGNABLE
As*sign"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being assigned, allotted, specified, or designated;
as, an assignable note or bill; an assignable reason; an assignable
quantity.

ASSIGNAT
As`si`gnat", n. Etym: [F. assignat, fr. L. assignatus, p. p. of
assignare.]

Defn: One of the notes, bills, or bonds, issued as currency by the
revolutionary government of France (1790-1796), and based on the
security of the lands of the church and of nobles which had been
appropriated by the state.

ASSIGNATION
As`sig*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. assignatio, fr. assignare: cf. F.
assignation.]

1. The act of assigning or allotting; apportionment.
This order being taken in the senate, as touching the appointment and
assignation of those provinces. Holland.

2. An appointment of time and place for meeting or interview; -- used
chiefly of love interviews, and now commonly in a bad sense.
While nymphs take treats, or assignations give. Pope.

3. A making over by transfer of title; assignment. House of
assignation, a house in which appointments for sexual intercourse are
fulfilled.

ASSIGNEE
As`sign*ee", n. Etym: [F. assigné, p. p. of assigner. See Assign, v.,
and cf. Assign an assignee.] (Law)
(a) A person to whom an assignment is made; a person appointed or
deputed by another to do some act, perform some business, or enjoy
some right, privilege, or property; as, an assignee of a bankrupt.
See Assignment (c). An assignee may be by special appointment or
deed, or be created by jaw; as an executor. Cowell. Blount. (b) pl.

Defn: In England, the persons appointed, under a commission of
bankruptcy, to manage the estate of a bankrupt for the benefit of his
creditors.

ASSIGNER
As*sign"er, n.

Defn: One who assigns, appoints, allots, or apportions.

ASSIGNMENT
As*sign"ment, n. Etym: [LL. assignamentum: cf. OF. assenement.]

1. An allotting or an appointment to a particular person or use; or
for a particular time, as of a cause or causes in court.

2. (Law)
(a) A transfer of title or interest by writing, as of lease, bond,
note, or bill of exchange; a transfer of the whole of some particular
estate or interest in lands.
(b) The writing by which an interest is transferred.
(c) The transfer of the property of a bankrupt to certain persons
called assignees, in whom it is vested for the benefit of creditors.
Assignment of dower, the setting out by metes and bounds of the
widow's thirds or portion in the deceased husband's estate, and
allotting it to her.

Note: Assignment is also used in law as convertible with
specification; assignment of error in proceedings for review being
specification of error; and assignment of perjury or fraud in
indictment being specifications of perjury or fraud.

ASSIGNOR
As`sign*or", n. Etym: [L. assignator. Cf. Assigner.] (Law)

Defn: An assigner; a person who assigns or transfers an interest; as,
the assignor of a debt or other chose in action.

ASSIMILABILITY
As*sim`i*la*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being assimilable. [R.] Coleridge.

ASSIMILABLE
As*sim"i*la*ble, a.

Defn: That may be assimilated; that may be likened, or appropriated
and incorporated.

ASSIMILATE
As*sim"i*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assimilated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Assimilating.] Etym: [L. assimilatus, p. p. of assimilare; ad +
similare to make like, similis like. See Similar, Assemble,
Assimilate.]

1. To bring to a likeness or to conformity; to cause a resemblance
between. Sir M. Hale.
To assimilate our law to the law of Scotland. John Bright.
Fast falls a fleecy; the downy flakes Assimilate all objects. Cowper.

2. To liken; to compa [R.]

3. To appropriate and transform or incorporate into the substance of
the assimilating body; to absorb or appropriate, as nourishment; as,
food is assimilated and converted into organic tissue.
Hence also animals and vegetables may assimilate their nourishment.
Sir I. Newton.
His mind had no power to assimilate the lessons. Merivale.

ASSIMILATE
As*sim"i*late, v. i.

1. To become similar or like something else. [R.]

2. To change and appropriate nourishment so as to make it a part of
the substance of the assimilating body.
Aliment easily assimilated or turned into blood. Arbuthnot.

3. To be converted into the substance of the assimilating body; to
become incorporated; as, some kinds of food assimilate more readily
than others.
I am a foreign material, and cannot assimilate with the church of
England. J. H. Newman.

ASSIMILATION
As*sim`i*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. assimilatio: cf. F. assimilation.]

1. The act or process of assimilating or bringing to a resemblance,
likeness, or identity; also, the state of being so assimilated; as,
the assimilation of one sound to another.
To aspire to an assimilation with God. Dr. H. More.
The assimilation of gases and vapors. Sir J. Herschel.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The conversion of nutriment into the fluid or solid substance
of the body, by the processes of digestion and absorption, whether in
plants or animals.
Not conversing the body, not repairing it by assimilation, but
preserving it by ventilation. Sir T. Browne.

Note: The term assimilation has been limited by some to the final
process by which the nutritive matter of the blood is converted into
the substance of the tissues and organs.

ASSIMILATIVE
As*sim"i*la*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. assimilativus, F. assimilatif.]

Defn: Tending to, or characterized by, assimilation; that assimilates
or causes assimilation; as, an assimilative process or substance.

ASSIMILATORY
As*sim"i*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending to assimilate, or produce assimilation; as,
assimilatory organs.

ASSIMULATE
As*sim"u*late, v. t. Etym: [L. assimulatus, p. p. of assimulare,
equiv. to assimilare. See Assimilate, v. t.]

1. To feign; to counterfeit; to simulate; to resemble. [Obs.] Blount.

2. To assimilate. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

ASSIMULATION
As*sim`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. assimulatio, equiv. to assimilatio.]

Defn: Assimilation. [Obs.] Bacon.

ASSINEGO
As`si*ne"go, n.

Defn: See Asinego.

ASSISH
Ass"ish, a.

Defn: Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate.
Such . . . appear to be of the assich kind . . . Udall.

ASSIST
As*sist", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assisted; p. pr. & vb. n. Assisting.]
Etym: [L. assistere; ad + sistere to cause to stand, to stand, from
stare to stand: cf. F. assister. See Stand.]

Defn: To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time of
distress; to help; to aid; to succor.
Assist me, knight. I am undone! Shak.

Syn.
 -- To help; aid; second; back; support; relieve; succor; befriend;
sustain; favor. See Help.

ASSIST
As*sist", v. i.

1. To lend aid; to help.
With God not parted from him, as was feared, But favoring and
assisting to the end. Milton.

2. To be present as a spectator; as, to assist at a public meeting.
[A Gallicism] Gibbon. Prescott.

ASSISTANCE
As*sist"ance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assistance.]

1. The act of assisting; help; aid; furtherance; succor; support.
Without the assistance of a mortal hand. Shak.

2. An assistant or helper; a body of helpers. [Obs.]
Wat Tyler [was] killed by valiant Walworth, the lord mayor of London,
and his assistance, . . . John Cavendish. Fuller.

3. Persons present. [Obs. or a Gallicism]

ASSISTANT
As*sist"ant, a. Etym: [Cf. F. assistant, p. pr. of assister.]

1. Helping; lending aid or support; auxiliary.
Genius and learning . . . are mutually and greatly assistant to each
other. Beattie.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: Of the second grade in the staff of the army; as, an assistant
surgeon. [U.S.]

Note: In the English army it designates the third grade in any
particular branch of the staff. Farrow.

ASSISTANT
As*sist"ant, n.

1. One who, or that which, assists; a helper; an auxiliary; a means
of help.
Four assistants who his labor share. Pope.
Rhymes merely as assistants to memory. Mrs. Chapone.

2. An attendant; one who is present. Dryden.

ASSISTANTLY
As*sist"ant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner to give aid. [R.]

ASSISTER
As*sist"er, n.

Defn: An assistant; a helper.

ASSISTFUL
As*sist"ful, a.

Defn: Helpful.

ASSISTIVE
As*sist"ive, a.

Defn: Lending aid, helping.

ASSISTLESS
As*sist"less, a.

Defn: Without aid or help. [R.] Pope.

ASSISTOR
As*sist"or, n. (Law)

Defn: A assister.

ASSITHMENT
As*sith"ment, n.

Defn: See Assythment. [Obs.]

ASSIZE
As*size", n. Etym: [OE. assise, asise, OF. assise, F. assises,
assembly of judges, the decree pronounced by them, tax, impost, fr.
assis, assise, p. p. of asseoir, fr. L. assid to sit by; ad + sed to
sit. See Sit, Size, and cf. Excise, Assess.]

1. An assembly of knights and other substantial men, with a bailiff
or justice, in a certain place and at a certain time, for public
business. [Obs.]

2. (Law)
(a) A special kind of jury or inquest.
(b) A kind of writ or real action.
(c) A verdict or finding of a jury upon such writ.
(d) A statute or ordinance in general. Specifically: (1) A statute
regulating the weight, measure, and proportions of ingredients and
the price of articles sold in the market; as, the assize of bread and
other provisions; (2) A statute fixing the standard of weights and
measures.
(e) Anything fixed or reduced to a certainty in point of time,
number, quantity, quality, weight, measure, etc.; as, rent of assize.
Glanvill. Spelman. Cowell. Blackstone. Tomlins. Burrill.

Note: [This term is not now used in England in the sense of a writ or
real action, and seldom of a jury of any kind, but in Scotch practice
it is still technically applied to the jury in criminal cases.
Stephen. Burrill. Erskine.]
(f) A court, the sitting or session of a court, for the trial of
processes, whether civil or criminal, by a judge and jury.
Blackstone. Wharton. Encyc. Brit.
(g) The periodical sessions of the judges of the superior courts in
every county of England for the purpose of administering justice in
the trial and determination of civil and criminal cases; -- usually
in the plural. Brande. Wharton. Craig. Burrill.
(h) The time or place of holding the court of assize; -- generally in
the plural, assizes.

3. Measure; dimension; size. [In this sense now corrupted into size.]
An hundred cubits high by just assize. Spenser.
[Formerly written, as in French, assise.]

ASSIZE
As*size", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assized; p. pr. & vb. n. Assizing.]
Etym: [From Assize, n.: cf. LL. assisare to decree in assize. Cf.
Asses, v.]

1. To assess; to value; to rate. [Obs.] Gower.

2. To fix the weight, measure, or price of, by an ordinance or
regulation of authority. [Obs.]

ASSIZER
As*siz"er, n.

Defn: An officer who has the care or inspection of weights and
measures, etc.

ASSIZOR
As*siz"or, n. (Scots Law)

Defn: A juror.

ASSOBER
As*so"ber, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + sober. Cf. Ensober.]

Defn: To make or keep sober. [Obs.] Gower.

ASSOCIABILITY
As*so`cia*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being associable, or capable of association;
associableness. "The associability of feelings." H. Spencer.

ASSOCIABLE
As*so"cia*ble, a. Etym: [See Associate.]

1. Capable of being associated or joined.
We know feelings to be associable only by the proved ability of one
to revive another. H. Spencer.

2. Sociable; companionable. [Obs.]

3. (Med.)

Defn: Liable to be affected by sympathy with other parts; -- said of
organs, nerves, muscles, etc.
The stomach, the most associable of all the organs of the animal
body. Med. Rep.

ASSOCIABLENESS
As*so"cia*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Associability.

ASSOCIATE
As*so"ci*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Associated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Associating.] Etym: [L. associatus, p. p. of associare; ad + sociare
to join or unite, socius companion. See Social.]

1. To join with one, as a friend, companion, partner, or confederate;
as, to associate others with .

2. To join or connect; to combine in acting; as, particles of gold
associated with other substances.

3. To connect or place together in thought.
He succeeded in associating his name inseparably with some names
which will last an long as our language. Macaulay.

4. To accompany; to keep company with. [Obs.]
Friends should associate friends in grief and woe. Shak.

ASSOCIATE
As*so"ci*ate, v. i.

1. To unite in company; to keep company, implying intimacy; as,
congenial minds are disposed to associate.

2. To unite in action, or to be affected by the action of a different
part of the body. E. Darwin.

ASSOCIATE
As*so"ci*ate, a. Etym: [L. associatus, p. p.]

1. Closely connected or joined with some other, as in interest,
purpose, employment, or office; sharing responsibility or authority;
as, an associate judge.
While I descend . . . to my associate powers. Milton.

2. Admitted to some, but not to all, rights and privileges; as, an
associate member.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: Connected by habit or sympathy; as, associate motions, such as
occur sympathetically, in consequence of preceding motions. E.
Darwin.

ASSOCIATE
As*so"ci*ate, n.

1. A companion; one frequently in company with another, implying
intimacy or equality; a mate; a fellow.

2. A partner in interest, as in business; or a confederate in a
league.

3. One connected with an association or institution without the full
rights or privileges of a regular member; as, an associate of the
Royal Academy.

4. Anything closely or usually connected with another; an
concomitant.
The one [idea] no sooner comes into the understanding, than its
associate appears with it. Locke.

Syn.
 -- Companion; mate; fellow; friend; ally; partner; coadjutor;
comrade; accomplice.

ASSOCIATED
As*so"ci*a`ted, a.

Defn: Joined as a companion; brought into association; accompanying;
combined. Associated movements (Physiol.), consensual movements which
accompany voluntary efforts without our consciousness. Dunglison.

ASSOCIATESHIP
As*so"ci*ate*ship, n.

Defn: The state of an associate, as in Academy or an office.

ASSOCIATION
As*so`ci*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. association, LL. associatio, fr. L.
associare.]

1. The act of associating, or state of being associated; union;
connection, whether of persons of things. "Some . . . bond of
association." Hooker.
Self-denial is a kind of holy association with God. Boyle.

2. Mental connection, or that which is mentally linked or associated
with a thing.
Words . . . must owe their powers association. Johnson.
Why should . . . the holiest words, with all their venerable
associations, be profaned Coleridge.

3. Union of persons in a company or society for some particular
purpose; as, the American Association for the Advancement of Science;
a benevolent association. Specifically, as among the
Congregationalists, a society, consisting of a number of ministers,
generally the pastors of neighboring churches, united for promoting
the interests of religion and the harmony of the churches.
Association of ideas (Physiol.), the combination or connection of
states of mind or their objects with one another, as the result of
which one is said to be revived or represented by means of the other.
The relations according to which they are thus connected or revived
are called the law of association. Prominent among them are reckoned
the relations of time and place, and of cause and effect. Porter.

ASSOCIATIONAL
As*so`ci*a"tion*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to association, or to an association.

2. Pertaining to the theory held by the associationists.

ASSOCIATIONISM
As*so`ci*a"tion*ism, n. (Philos.)

Defn: The doctrine or theory held by associationists.

ASSOCIATIONIST
As*so`ci*a"tion*ist, n. (Philos.)

Defn: One who explains the higher functions and relations of the soul
by the association of ideas; e. g., Hartley, J. C. Mill.

ASSOCIATIVE
As*so"ci*a*tive, a.

Defn: Having the quality of associating; tending or leading to
association; as, the associative faculty. Hugh Miller.

ASSOCIATOR
As*so"ci*a`tor, n.

Defn: An associate; a confederate or partner in any scheme.
How Pennsylvania's air agrees with Quakers, And Carolina's with
associators. Dryden.

ASSOIL
As*soil", v. t. Etym: [OF. assoiler, absoiler, assoldre, F. absoudre,
L. absolvere. See Absolve.]

1. To set free; to release. [Archaic]
Till from her hands the spright assoiled is. Spenser.

2. To solve; to clear up. [Obs.]
Any child might soon be able to assoil this riddle. Bp. Jewel.

3. To set free from guilt; to absolve. [Archaic]
Acquitted and assoiled from the guilt. Dr. H. More.
Many persons think themselves fairly assoiled, because they are . . .
not of scandalous lives. Jer. Taylor.

4. To expiate; to atone for. [Archaic] Spenser.
Let each act assoil a fault. E. Arnold.

5. To remove; to put off. [Obs.]
She soundly slept, and careful thoughts did quite assoil. Spenser.

ASSOIL
As*soil", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + soil.]

Defn: To soil; to stain. [Obs. or Poet.] Beau. & Fl.
Ne'er assoil my cobwebbed shield. Wordsworth.

ASSOILMENT
As*soil"ment, n.

Defn: Act of assoiling, or state of being assoiled; absolution;
acquittal.

ASSOILMENT
As*soil"ment, n.

Defn: A soiling; defilement.

ASSOILZIE; ASSOILYIE
As*soil"zie, As*soil"yie, v. t. Etym: [Old form assoil. See Assoil.]
(Scots Law)

Defn: To absolve; to acquit by sentence of court.
God assoilzie him for the sin of bloodshed. Sir W. Scott.

ASSONANCE
As"so*nance, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assonance. See Assonant.]

1. Resemblance of sound. "The disagreeable assonance of Steevens.

2. (Pros.)

Defn: A peculiar species of rhyme, in which the last accented vowel
and those which follow it in one word correspond in sound with the
vowels of another word, while the consonants of the two words are
unlike in sound; as, calamo and platano, baby and chary.
The assonance is peculiar to the Spaniard. Hallam.

3. Incomplete correspondence.
Assonance between facts seemingly remote. Lowell.

ASSONANT
As"so*nant, a. Etym: [L. assonans, p. pr. of assonare to sound to, to
correspond to in sound; ad + sonare to sound, sonus sound: cf. F.
assonant. See Sound.]

1. Having a resemblance of sounds.

2. (Pros.)

Defn: Pertaining to the peculiar species of rhyme called assonance;
not consonant.

ASSONANTAL
As`so*nan"tal, a.

Defn: Assonant.

ASSONATE
As"so*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. assonare, assonatum, to respond to.]

Defn: To correspond in sound.

ASSORT
As*sort", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assorted; p. pr. & vb. n. Assorting.]
Etym: [F. assortir; (L. ad) + sortir to cast or draw lots, to obtain
by lot, L. sortiri, fr. sors, sortis, lot. See Sort.]

1. To separate and distribute into classes, as things of a like kind,
nature, or quality, or which are suited to a like purpose; to
classify; as, to assort goods.

Note: [Rarely applied to persons.]
They appear . . . no ways assorted to those with whom they must
associate. Burke.

2. To furnish with, or make up of, various sorts or a variety of
goods; as, to assort a cargo.

ASSORT
As*sort", v. i.

Defn: To agree; to be in accordance; to be adapted; to suit; to fall
into a class or place. Mitford.

ASSORTED
As*sort"ed, a.

Defn: Selected; culled.

ASSORTMENT
As*sort"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. assortiment.]

1. Act of assorting, or distributing into sorts, kinds, or classes.

2. A collection or quantity of things distributed into kinds or
sorts; a number of things assorted.

3. A collection containing a variety of sorts or kinds adapted to
various wants, demands, or purposes; as, an assortment of goods.

ASSOT
As*sot", v. t. Etym: [OF. asoter, F. assoter; ad) + sot stupid. See
Sot.]

Defn: To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate. [Obs.]
Some ecstasy assotted had his sense. Spenser.

ASSOT
As*sot", a.

Defn: Dazed; foolish; infatuated. [Obs.]
Willie, I ween thou be assot. Spenser.

ASSUAGE
As*suage", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assuaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Assuaging.]
Etym: [OE. asuagen, aswagen, OF. asoagier, asuagier, fr. assouagier,
fr. L. ad + suavis sweet. See Sweet.]

Defn: To soften, in a figurative sense; to allay, mitigate, ease, or
lessen, as heat, pain, or grief; to appease or pacify, as passion or
tumult; to satisfy, as appetite or desire.
Refreshing winds the summer's heat assuage. Addison.
To assuage the sorrows of a desolate old man Burke.
The fount at which the panting mind assuages Her thirst of knowledge.
Byron.

Syn.
 -- To alleviate; mitigate; appease; soothe; calm; tranquilize;
relieve. See Alleviate.

ASSUAGE
As*suage", v. i.

Defn: To abate or subside. [Archaic] "The waters assuaged." Gen. vii.
1.
The plague being come to a crisis, its fury began to assuage. De Foe.

ASSUAGEMENT
As*suage"ment, n. Etym: [OF. assouagement, asuagement.]

Defn: Mitigation; abatement.

ASSUAGER
As*sua"ger, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, assuages.

ASSUASIVE
As*sua"sive, a. Etym: [From assuage, as if this were fr. a supposed
L. assuadere to persuade to; or from E. pref. ad + -suasive as in
persuasive.]

Defn: Mitigating; tranquilizing; soothing. [R.]
Music her soft assuasive voice applies. Pope.

ASSUBJUGATE
As*sub"ju*gate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad- + subjugate.]

Defn: To bring into subjection. [Obs.] Shak.

ASSUEFACTION
As`sue*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. assuefacere to accustom to; assuetus
(p. p. of assuescere to accustom to) + facere to make; cf. OF.
assuefaction.]

Defn: The act of accustoming, or the state of being accustomed;
habituation. [Obs.]
Custom and studies efform the soul like wax, and by assuefaction
introduce a nature. Jer. Taylor.

ASSUETUDE
As"sue*tude, n. Etym: [L. assuetudo, fr. assuetus accustomed.]

Defn: Accustomedness; habit; habitual use.
Assuetude of things hurtful doth make them lose their force to hurt.
Bacon.

ASSUMABLE
As*sum"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be assumed.

ASSUMABLY
As*sum"a*bly, adv.

Defn: By way of assumption.

ASSUME
As*sume", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assumed; p. pr. & vb. n. Assuming.]
Etym: [L. assumere; ad + sumere to take; sub + emere to take, buy:
cf. F. assumer. See Redeem.]

1. To take to or upon one's self; to take formally and
demonstratively; sometimes, to appropriate or take unjustly.
Trembling they stand while Jove assumes the throne. Pope.
The god assumed his native form again. Pope.

2. To take for granted, or without proof; to suppose as a fact; to
suppose or take arbitrarily or tentatively.
The consequences of assumed principles. Whewell.

3. To pretend to possess; to take in appearance.
Ambition assuming the mask of religion. Porteus.
Assume a virtue, if you have it not. Shak.

4. To receive or adopt.
The sixth was a young knight of lesser renown and lower rank, assumed
into that honorable company. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- To arrogate; usurp; appropriate.

ASSUME
As*sume", v. i.

1. To be arrogant or pretentious; to claim more than is due. Bp.
Burnet.

2. (Law)

Defn: To undertake, as by a promise. Burrill.

ASSUMED
As*sumed", a.

1. Supposed.

2. Pretended; hypocritical; make-believe; as, an assumed character.

ASSUMEDLY
As*sum"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: By assumption.

ASSUMENT
As*sum"ent, n. Etym: [L. assumentum, fr. ad + suere to sew.]

Defn: A patch; an addition; a piece put on. [Obs.] John Lewis (1731).

ASSUMER
As*sum"er, n.

Defn: One who assumes, arrogates, pretends, or supposes. W. D.
Whitney.

ASSUMING
As*sum"ing, a.

Defn: Pretentious; taking much upon one's self; presumptuous. Burke.

ASSUMPSIT
As*sump"sit, n. Etym: [L., he undertook, pret. of L. assumere. See
Assume.] (Law)
(a) A promise or undertaking, founded on a consideration. This
promise may be oral or in writing not under seal. It may be express
or implied.
(b) An action to recover damages for a breach or nonperformance of a
contract or promise, express or implied, oral or in writing not under
seal. Common or indebitatus assumpsit is brought for the most part on
an implied promise. Special assumpsit is founded on an express
promise or undertaking. Wharton.

ASSUMPT
As*sumpt", v. t. Etym: [L. assumptus, p. p. of assumere. See Assume.]

Defn: To take up; to elevate; to assume. [Obs.] Sheldon.

ASSUMPT
As*sumpt", n. Etym: [L. assumptum, p. p. neut. of assumere.]

Defn: That which is assumed; an assumption. [Obs.]
The sun of all your assumpts is this. Chillingworth.

ASSUMPTION
As*sump"tion, n. Etym: [OE. assumpcioun a taking up into heaven, L.
assumptio a taking, fr. assumere: cf. F. assomption. See Assume.]

1. The act of assuming, or taking to or upon one's self; the act of
taking up or adopting.
The assumption of authority. Whewell.

2. The act of taking for granted, or supposing a thing without proof;
supposition; unwarrantable claim.
This gives no sanction to the unwarrantable assumption that the soul
sleeps from the period of death to the resurrection of the body.
Thodey.
That calm assumption of the virtues. W. Black.

3. The thing supposed; a postulate, or proposition assumed; a
supposition.
Hold! says the Stoic; your assumption's wrong. Dryden.

4. (Logic)

Defn: The minor or second proposition in a categorical syllogism.

5. The taking of a person up into heaven. Hence: (Rom. Cath. & Greek
Churches)

Defn: A festival in honor of the ascent of the Virgin Mary into
heaven.

ASSUMPTIVE
As*sump"tive, a. Etym: [L. assumptivus, fr. assumptus, fr. assumere.]

Defn: Assumed, or capable of being assumed; characterized by
assumption; making unwarranted claims.
 -- As*sump"tive*ly, adv. Assumptive arms (Her.), originally, arms
which a person had a right to assume, in consequence of an exploit;
now, those assumed without sanction of the Heralds' College. Percy
Smith.

ASSURANCE
As*sur"ance, n. Etym: [OE. assuraunce, F. assurance, fr. assurer. See
Assure.]

1. The act of assuring; a declaration tending to inspire full
confidence; that which is designed to give confidence.
Whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he hath raised
him from the dead. Acts xvii. 31.
Assurances of support came pouring in daily. Macaulay.

2. The state of being assured; firm persuasion; full confidence or
trust; freedom from doubt; certainty.
Let us draw with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our
hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. Heb. x. 22.

3. Firmness of mind; undoubting, steadiness; intrepidity; courage;
confidence; self-reliance.
Brave men meet danger with assurance. Knolles.
Conversation with the world will give them knowledge and assurance.
Locke.

4. Excess of boldness; impudence; audacity; as, his assurance is
intolerable.

5. Betrothal; affiance. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

6. Insurance; a contract for the payment of a sum on occasion of a
certain event, as loss or death.

Note: Recently, assurance has been used, in England, in relation to
life contingencies, and insurance in relation to other contingencies.
It is called temporary assurance, in the time within which the
contingent event must happen is limited. See Insurance.

7. (Law)

Defn: Any written or other legal evidence of the conveyance of
property; a conveyance; a deed.

Note: In England, the legal evidences of the conveyance of property
are called the common assurances of the kingdom. Blackstone.

ASSURE
As*sure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Assured; p. pr. & vb. n. Assuring.]
Etym: [OF. aseürer, F. assurer, LL. assecurare; L. ad + securus
secure, sure, certain. See Secure, Sure, and cf. Insure.]

1. To make sure or certain; to render confident by a promise,
declaration, or other evidence.
His promise that thy seed shall bruise our foe . . . Assures me that
the bitterness of death Is past, and we shall live. Milton.

2. To declare to, solemnly; to assert to (any one) with the design of
inspiring belief or confidence.
I dare assure thee that no enemy Shall ever take alive the noble
Brutus. Shak.

3. To confirm; to make certain or secure.
And it shall be assured to him. Lev. xxvii. 19.
And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our
hearts before him. 1 John iii. 19.

4. To affiance; to betroth. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Law)

Defn: To insure; to covenant to indemnify for loss, or to pay a
specified sum at death. See Insure.

Syn.
 -- To declare; aver; avouch; vouch; assert; asseverate; protest;
persuade; convince.

ASSURED
As*sured", a.

Defn: Made sure; safe; insured; certain; indubitable; not doubting;
bold to excess.

ASSURED
As*sured", n.

Defn: One whose life or property is insured.

ASSUREDLY
As*sur"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Certainly; indubitably. "The siege assuredly I'll raise." Shak.

ASSUREDNESS
As*sur"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being assured; certainty; full confidence.

ASSURER
As*sur"er, n.

1. One who assures. Specifically: One who insures against loss; an
insurer or underwriter.

2. One who takes out a life assurance policy.

ASSURGENCY
As*sur"gen*cy, n.

Defn: Act of rising.
The . . . assurgency of the spirit through the body. Coleridge.

ASSURGENT
As*sur"gent, a. Etym: [L. assurgens, p. pr. of assurgere; ad +
surgere to rise.]

Defn: Ascending; (Bot.)

Defn: rising obliquely; curving upward. Gray.

ASSURING
As*sur"ing, a.

Defn: That assures; tending to assure; giving confidence.
 -- As*sur"ing*ly, adv.

ASSWAGE
As*swage", v.

Defn: See Assuage.

ASSYRIAN
As*syr"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Assyrius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Assyria, or to its inhabitants.
 -- n. A native or an inhabitant of Assyria; the language of Assyria.

ASSYRIOLOGICAL
As*syr`i*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Assyriology; as, Assyriological studies.

ASSYRIOLOGIST
As*syr`i*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One versed in Assyriology; a student of Assyrian archæology.

ASSYRIOLOGY
As*syr`i*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Assyria + -logy.]

Defn: The science or study of the antiquities, language, etc., of
ancient Assyria.

ASSYTHMENT
As*syth"ment, n. Etym: [From OF. aset, asez, orig. meaning enough.
See Assets.]

Defn: Indemnification for injury; satisfaction. [Chiefly in Scots
law]

ASTACUS
As"ta*cus, n. Etym: [L. astacus a crab, Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of crustaceans, containing the crawfish of fresh-water
lobster of Europe, and allied species of western North America. See
Crawfish.

ASTARBOARD
A*star"board, adv. (Naut.)

Defn: Over to the starboard side; -- said of the tiller.

ASTART
A*start", v. t. & i.

Defn: Same as Astert. [Obs.]

ASTARTE
As*tar"te, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of bivalve mollusks, common on the coasts of America
and Europe.

ASTATE
A*state", n.

Defn: Estate; state. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASTATIC
A*stat"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + static.] (Magnetism)

Defn: Having little or no tendency to take a fixed or definite
position or direction: thus, a suspended magnetic needle, when
rendered astatic, loses its polarity, or tendency to point in a given
direction. Astatic pair (Magnetism), a pair of magnetic needles so
mounted as to be nearly or quite astatic, as in some galvanometers.

ASTATICALLY
A*stat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an astatic manner.

ASTATICISM
A*stat"i*cism, n.

Defn: The state of being astatic.

ASTATIZE
As"ta*tize, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Astatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Astatizing.] (Magnetism)

Defn: To render astatic.

ASTATKI
As*tat"ki, n. [From Russ. ostatki remnants, pl. of ostatok.]

Defn: A thick liquid residuum obtained in the distillation of Russian
petroleum, much used as fuel.

ASTAY
A*stay", adv. (Naut.)

Defn: An anchor is said to be astay, in heaving it, an acute angle is
formed between the cable and the surface of the water.

ASTEISM
As"te*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. astéisme.] (Rhet.)

Defn: Genteel irony; a polite and ingenious manner of deriding
another.

ASTEL
As"tel, n. Etym: [OE. astelle piece of wood, OF. astele splinter,
shaving, F. attelle, astelle: cf. L. astula, dim. of assis board.]
(Mining)

Defn: An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads in
a mine.

ASTER
As"ter, n. Etym: [L. aster aster, star, Gr. Star.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers;
starwort; Michaelmas daisy.

2. (Floriculture)

Defn: A plant of the genus Callistephus. Many varieties (called China
asters, German asters, etc.) are cultivated for their handsome
compound flowers.

ASTERIAS
As*te"ri*as, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of echinoderms.

Note: Formerly the group of this name included nearly all starfishes
and ophiurans. Now it is restricted to a genus including the
commonest shore starfishes.

ASTERIATED
As*te"ri*a`ted, a. Etym: [See Asterias.]

Defn: Radiated, with diverging rays; as, asteriated sapphire.

ASTERIDIAN
As`ter*id"i*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Asterioidea.
 -- n.

Defn: A starfish; one of the Asterioidea.

ASTERIOIDEA; ASTERIDEA
As*te`ri*oid"e*a, As`ter*id"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -oid. See
Asterias.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A class of Echinodermata including the true starfishes. The
rays vary in number and always have ambulacral grooves below. The
body is starshaped or pentagonal.

ASTERION
As*te"ri*on, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The point on the side of the skull where the lambdoid, parieto-
mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures.

ASTERISCUS
As`ter*is"cus, n. Etym: [L., an asterisk. See Asterisk.] (Anat.)

Defn: The smaller of the two otoliths found in the inner ear of many
fishes.

ASTERISK
As"ter*isk, n. Etym: [L. asteriscus, Gr. Aster.]

Defn: The figure of a star, thus,

ASTERISM
As`ter*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. astérisme.]

1. (Astron.)
(a) A constellation. [Obs.]
(b) A small cluster of stars.

2. (Printing)
(a) An asterisk, or mark of reference. [R.]
(b) Three asterisks placed in this manner, *, to direct attention to
a particular passage.

3. (Crystallog.)

Defn: An optical property of some crystals which exhibit a star-
shaped by reflected light, as star sapphire, or by transmitted light,
as some mica.

ASTERN
A*stern", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + stern.] (Naut.)

1. In or at the hinder part of a ship; toward the hinder part, or
stern; backward; as, to go astern.

2. Behind a ship; in the rear. "A gale of wind right astern." De Foe.
"Left this strait astern." Drake. To bake astern, to go stern
foremost.
 -- To be astern of the reckoning, to be behind the position given by
the reckoning.
 -- To drop astern, to fall or be left behind.
 -- To go astern, to go backward, as from the action of currents or
winds.

ASTERNAL
A*ster"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + sternal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Not sternal; -- said of ribs which do not join the sternum.

ASTEROID
As"ter*oid, n. Etym: [Gr. astéroïde. See Aster.]

Defn: A starlike body; esp. one of the numerous small planets whose
orbits lie between those of Mars and Jupiter; -- called also
planetoids and minor planets.

ASTEROIDAL
As`ter*oid"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an asteroid, or to the asteroids.

ASTEROLEPIS
As`te*rol"e*pis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fishes, some of which were eighteen or twenty feet
long, found in a fossil state in the Old Red Sandstone. Hugh Miller.

ASTEROPE
As*ter"o*pe, n. [Gr. , lit., lightning.]

1.  (Myth.)

Defn: One of the Pleiades; -- called also Sterope.

2.  (Astron.) A double star in the Pleiades (21 k and 22 l Pleiadum,
of the 5.8 and 6.4 magnitude respectively), appearing as a single
star of the 5.3 magnitude to the naked eye.

ASTEROPHYLLITE
As`ter*oph"yl*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil plant from the coal formations of Europe and America,
now regarded as the branchlets and foliage of calamites.

ASTERT
A*stert, v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + start; OE. asterten, asturten.]

Defn: To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun. [Obs.] Spenser.

ASTERT
A*stert", v. i.

Defn: To escape. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASTHENIA; ASTHENY
As`the*ni"a, As"the*ny, n. Etym: [NL. asthenia, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Want or loss of strength; debility; diminution of the vital
forces.

ASTHENIC
As*then"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Characterized by, or pertaining to, debility; weak;
debilitating.

ASTHENOPIA
As`the*no"pi*a, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Weakness of sight. Quain.
 -- As`the*nop"ic, a.

ASTHMA
Asth"ma, n. Etym: [Gr. va, Goth. waian, to blow, E. wind.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to a
spasmodic contraction of the bronchi), recurring at intervals,
accompanied with a wheezing sound, a sense of constriction in the
chest, a cough, and expectoration.

ASTHMA PAPER
Asth"ma pa"per.

Defn: Paper impregnated with saltpeter. The fumes from the burning
paper are often inhaled as an alleviative by asthmatics.

ASTHMATIC; ASTHMATICAL
Asth*mat"ic, Asth*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. asthmaticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to asthma; as, an asthmatic cough; liable to,
or suffering from, asthma; as, an asthmatic patient.
 -- Asth*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

ASTHMATIC
Asth*mat"ic, n.

Defn: A person affected with asthma.

ASTIGMATIC
As`tig*mat"ic, a. (Med. & Opt.)

Defn: Affected with, or pertaining to, astigmatism; as, astigmatic
eyes; also, remedying astigmatism; as, astigmatic lenses.

ASTIGMATISM
A*stig"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. astigmatisme.] (Med. & Opt.)

Defn: A defect of the eye or of a lens, in consequence of which the
rays derived from one point are not brought to a single focal point,
thus causing imperfect images or indistictness of vision.

Note: The term is applied especially to the defect causing images of
lines having a certain direction to be indistinct, or imperfectly
seen, while those of lines transverse to the former are distinct, or
clearly seen.

ASTIPULATE
As*tip"u*late, v. i. Etym: [L. astipulari; ad + stipulari to
stipulate.]

Defn: To assent. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ASTIPULATION
As*tip`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. astipulatio.]

Defn: Stipulation; agreement. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

ASTIR
A*stir", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + stir.]

Defn: Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed.

ASTOMATOUS; ASTOMOUS
A*stom"a*tous, As"to*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Not possessing a mouth.

ASTON; ASTONE
As*ton", As*tone", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astoned, Astond, or Astound.]
Etym: [See Astonish.]

Defn: To stun; to astonish; to stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASTONIED
As*ton"ied, p. p.

Defn: Stunned; astonished. See Astony. [Archaic]
And I astonied fell and could not pray. Mrs. Browning.

ASTONISH
As*ton"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astonished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Astonishing.] Etym: [OE. astonien, astunian, astonen, OF. estoner, F.
étonner, fr. L. ex out + tonare to thunder, but perhaps influenced by
E. stun. See Thunder, Astound, Astony.]

1. To stun; to render senseless, as by a blow. [Obs.]
Enough, captain; you have astonished him. [Fluellen had struck
Pistol]. Shak.
The very cramp-fish [i. e., torpedo] . . . being herself not
benumbed, is able to astonish others. Holland.

2. To strike with sudden fear, terror, or wonder; to amaze; to
surprise greatly, as with something unaccountable; to confound with
some sudden emotion or passion.
Musidorus . . . had his wits astonished with sorrow. Sidney.
I, Daniel . . . was astonished at the vision. Dan. viii. 27.

Syn.
 -- To amaze; astound; overwhelm; surprise.
 -- Astonished, Surprised. We are surprised at what is unexpected. We
are astonished at what is above or beyond our comprehension. We are
taken by surprise. We are struck with astonishment. C. J. Smith. See
Amaze.

ASTONISHEDLY
As*ton"ish*ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In an astonished manner. [R.] Bp. Hall.

ASTONISHING
As*ton"ish*ing, a.

Defn: Very wonderful; of a nature to excite astonishment; as, an
astonishing event.

Syn.
 -- Amazing; surprising; wonderful; marvelous. As*ton"ish*ing*ly,
adv.
 -- As*ton"ish*ing*ness, n.

ASTONISHMENT
As*ton"ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. est, F. étonnement.]

1. The condition of one who is stunned. Hence: Numbness; loss of
sensation; stupor; loss of sense. [Obs.]
A coldness and astonishment in his loins, as folk say. Holland.

2. Dismay; consternation. [Archaic] Spenser.

3. The overpowering emotion excited when something unaccountable,
wonderful, or dreadful is presented to the mind; an intense degree of
surprise; amazement.
Lest the place And my quaint habits breed astonishment. Milton.

4. The object causing such an emotion.
Thou shalt become an astonishment. Deut. xxviii. 37.

Syn.
 -- Amazement; wonder; surprise.

ASTONY
As*ton"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astonied; p. pr. & vb. n. Astonying.
See Astone.]

Defn: To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay. [Archaic]
The captain of the Helots . . . strake Palladius upon the side of his
head, that he reeled astonied. Sir P. Sidney.
This sodeyn cas this man astonied so, That reed he wex, abayst, and
al quaking. Chaucer.

ASTOOP
A*stoop", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + stoop.]

Defn: In a stooping or inclined position. Gay.

ASTOUND
As*tound", a. Etym: [OE. astouned, astound, astoned, p. p. of astone.
See Astone.]

Defn: Stunned; astounded; astonished. [Archaic] Spenser.
Thus Ellen, dizzy and astound. As sudden ruin yawned around. Sir W.
Scott.

ASTOUND
As*tound", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astounded, [Obs.] Astound; p. pr. &
vb. n. Astounding.] Etym: [See Astound, a.]

1. To stun; to stupefy.
No puissant stroke his senses once astound. Fairfax.

2. To astonish; to strike with amazement; to confound with wonder,
surprise, or fear.
These thoughts may startle well, but not astound The virtuous mind.
Milton.

ASTOUNDING
As*tound"ing, a.

Defn: Of a nature to astound; astonishing; amazing; as, an astounding
force, statement, or fact.
 -- As*tound"ing*ly, adv.

ASTOUNDMENT
As*tound"ment, n.

Defn: Amazement. Coleridge.

ASTRACHAN
As`tra*chan", a. & n.

Defn: See Astrakhan.

ASTRADDLE
A*strad"dle, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + straddle.]

Defn: In a straddling position; astride; bestriding; as, to sit
astraddle a horse.

ASTRAEAN
As*træ"an, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the genus Astræa or the family Astræidæ.
 -- n.

Defn: A coral of the family Astræidæ; a star coral.

ASTRAGAL
As"tra*gal, n. Etym: [L. astragalus, Gr.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A convex molding of rounded surface, generally from half to
three quarters of a circle.

2. (Gun.)

Defn: A round molding encircling a cannon near the mouth.

ASTRAGALAR
As*trag"a*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the astragalus.

ASTRAGALOID
As*trag"a*loid, a. Etym: [Astragalus + -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling the astragalus in form.

ASTRAGALOMANCY
As*trag"a*lo*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of small bones or dice.

ASTRAGALUS
As*trag"a*lus, n. Etym: [L. See Astragal.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The ankle bone, or hock bone; the bone of the tarsus which
articulates with the tibia at the ankle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of papilionaceous plants, of the tribe Galegeæ,
containing numerous species, two of which are called, in English,
milk vetch and licorice vetch. Gum tragacanth is obtained from
different oriental species, particularly the A. gummifer and A.
verus.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: See Astragal, 1.

ASTRAKHAN
As`tra*khan", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Astrakhan in Russia or its products; made
of an Astrakhan skin.
 -- n.

Defn: The skin of stillborn or young lambs of that region, the curled
wool of which resembles fur.

ASTRAL
As"tral, a. Etym: [L. astralis, fr. astrum star, Gr. astral. See
Star.]

Defn: Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry;
starlike.
Shines only with an astral luster. I. Taylor.
Some astral forms I must invoke by prayer. Dryden.
Astral lamp, an Argand lamp so constructed that no shadow is cast
upon the table by the flattened ring-shaped reservoir in which the
oil is contained.
 -- Astral spirits, spirits formerly supposed to live in the heavenly
bodies or the aërial regions, and represented in the Middle Ages as
fallen angels, spirits of the dead, or spirits originating in fire.

ASTRAND
A*strand", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + strand.]

Defn: Stranded. Sir W. Scott.

ASTRAY
A*stray", adv. & a. Etym: [See Estray, Stray.]

Defn: Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense;
wandering; as, to lead one astray.
Ye were as sheep going astray. 1 Pet. ii. 25.

ASTRICT
As*trict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astricted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Astricting.] Etym: [L. astrictus, p. p. of astringere. See Astringe.]

1. To bind up; to confine; to constrict; to contract.
The solid parts were to be relaxed or astricted. Arbuthnot.

2. To bind; to constrain; to restrict; to limit. [R.]
The mind is astricted to certain necessary modes or forms of thought.
Sir W. Hamilton.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: To restrict the tenure of; as, to astrict lands. See
Astriction, 4. Burrill.

ASTRICT
As*trict", a.

Defn: Concise; contracted. [Obs.] Weever.

ASTRICTION
As*tric"tion, n. Etym: [L. astrictio.]

1. The act of binding; restriction; also, obligation. Milton.

2. (Med.)
(a) A contraction of parts by applications; the action of an
astringent substance on the animal economy. Dunglison.
(b) Constipation. Arbuthnot.

3. Astringency. [Obs.] Bacon.

4. (Scots Law)

Defn: An obligation to have the grain growing on certain lands ground
at a certain mill, the owner paying a toll. Bell.

Note: The lands were said to be astricted to the mill.

ASTRICTIVE
As*tric"tive, a.

Defn: Binding; astringent.
 -- n.

Defn: An astringent.
 -- As*tric"tive*ly, adv.

ASTRICTORY
As*tric"to*ry, a.

Defn: Astrictive. [R.]

ASTRIDE
A*stride", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + stride.]

Defn: With one leg on each side, as a man when on horseback; with the
legs stretched wide apart; astraddle.
Placed astride upon the bars of the palisade. Sir W. Scott.
Glasses with horn bows sat astride on his nose. Longfellow.

ASTRIFEROUS
As*trif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. astrifer; astrum star + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Bearing stars. [R.] Blount.

ASTRINGE
As*tringe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Astringed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Astringing.] Etym: [L. astringere; ad + stringere to draw tight. Cf.
Astrict, and see Strain, v. t.]

1. To bind fast; to constrict; to contract; to cause parts to draw
together; to compress.
Which contraction . . . astringeth the moistuBacon.

2. To bind by moral or legal obligation. Wolsey.

ASTRINGENCY
As*trin"gen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being astringent; the power of contracting the
parts of the body; that quality in medicines or other substances
which causes contraction of the organic textures; as, the astringency
of tannin.

ASTRINGENT
As*trin"gent, a. Etym: [L. astringens, p. pr. of astringere: cf. F.
astringent. See Astringe.]

1. Drawing together the tissues; binding; contracting; -- opposed to
laxative; as, astringent medicines; a butter and astringent taste;
astringent fruit.

2. Stern; austere; as, an astringent type of virtue.

ASTRINGENT
As*trin"gent, n.

Defn: A medicine or other substance that produces contraction in the
soft organic textures, and checks discharges of blood, mucus, etc.
External astringents are called styptics. Dunglison.

ASTRINGENTLY
As*trin"gent*ly, adv.

Defn: In an astringent manner.

ASTRINGER
As*trin"ger, n. Etym: [OE. ostreger, OF. ostrucier, F. autoursier,
fr. OF. austour, ostor, hawk, F. autour; cf. L. acceptor, for
accipiter, hawk.]

Defn: A falconer who keeps a goschawk. [Obs.] Shak. Cowell. [Written
also austringer.]

ASTRO-
As"tro-.

Defn: The combining form of the Greek word 'a`stron, meaning star.

ASTROFEL; ASTROFELL
As"tro*fel, As"tro*fell, n.

Defn: A bitter herb, probably the same as aster, or starwort.
Spenser.

ASTROGENY
As*trog"e*ny, n. Etym: [Astro- + Gr.

Defn: The creation or evolution of the stars or the heavens. H.
Spencer.

ASTROGNOSY
As*trog"no*sy, n. Etym: [Astro- + Gr.

Defn: The science or knowledge of the stars, esp. the fixed stars.
Bouvier.

ASTROGONY
As*trog"o*ny, n.

Defn: Same as Astrogeny.
 -- As`*tro*gon"ic, a.

ASTROGRAPHY
As*trog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Astro'cf + -graphy.]

Defn: The art of describing or delineating the stars; a description
or mapping of the heavens.

ASTROITE
As"tro*ite, n. Etym: [L. astroites: cf. F. astroite.]

Defn: A radiated stone or fossil; star-stone. [Obs.] [Written also
astrite and astrion.]

ASTROLABE
As"tro*labe, n. Etym: [OE. astrolabie, astrilabe, OF. astrelabe, F.
astrolabe, LL. astrolabium, fr. Gr.

1. (Astron.)

Defn: An instrument for observing or showing the positions of the
stars. It is now disused.

Note: Among the ancients, it was essentially the armillary sphere. A
graduated circle with sights, for taking altitudes at sea, was called
an astrolabe in the 18th century. It is now superseded by the
quadrant and sextant.

2. A stereographic projection of the sphere on the plane of a great
circle, as the equator, or a meridian; a planisphere. Whewell.

ASTROLATER
As*trol"a*ter, n.

Defn: A worshiper of the stars. Morley.

ASTROLATRY
As*trol"a*try, n. Etym: [Astro- + Gr. astrolâtrie.]

Defn: The worship of the stars.

ASTROLITHOLOGY
As`tro*li*thol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Astro- + lithology.]

Defn: The science of aërolites.

ASTROLOGER
As*trol"o*ger, n. Etym: [See Astrology.]

1. One who studies the stars; an astronomer. [Obs.]

2. One who practices astrology; one who professes to foretell events
by the aspects and situation of the stars.

ASTROLOGIAN
As`tro*lo"gi*an, n. Etym: [OF. astrologien.]

Defn: An astrologer. [Obs.]

ASTROLOGIC; ASTROLOGICAL
As`tro*log"ic, As`tro*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to astrology; professing or practicing
astrology. "Astrologi learning." Hudibras. "Astrological
prognostication." Cudworth.
 -- As`tro*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

ASTROLOGIZE
As*trol"o*gize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To apply astrology to; to study or practice astrology.

ASTROLOGY
As*trol"o*gy, n. Etym: [F. astrologie, L. astrologia, fr. Gr. Star.]

Defn: In its etymological signification, the science of the stars;
among the ancients, synonymous with astronomy; subsequently, the art
of judging of the influences of the stars upon human affairs, and of
foretelling events by their position and aspects.

Note: Astrology was much in vogue during the Middle Ages, and became
the parent of modern astronomy, as alchemy did of chemistry. It was
divided into two kinds: judicial astrology, which assumed to foretell
the fate and acts of nations and individuals, and natural astrology,
which undertook to predict events of inanimate nature, such as
changes of the weather, etc.

ASTROMANTIC
As`tro*man"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to divination by means of the stars;
astrologic. [R.] Dr. H. More.

ASTROMETEOROLOGY
As`tro*me`te*or*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Astro- + meteorology.]

Defn: The investigation of the relation between the sun, moon, and
stars, and the weather.
 -- As`*tro*me`te*or`o*log"ic*al, a.
 -- As`tro*me`te*or*ol"o*gist, n.

ASTROMETER
As*trom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Astro- + meter.]

Defn: An instrument for comparing the relative amount of the light of
stars.

ASTROMETRY
As*trom"e*try, n. Etym: [Astro- + metry.]

Defn: The art of making measurements among the stars, or of
determining their relative magnitudes.

ASTRONOMER
As*tron"o*mer, n. Etym: [See Astronomy.]

1. An astrologer. [Obs.] Shak.

2. One who is versed in astronomy; one who has a knowledge of the
laws of the heavenly orbs, or the principles by which their motions
are regulated, with their various phenomena.
An undevout astronomer is mad. Young.

ASTRONOMIAN
As`tro*no"mi*an, n. Etym: [OE. & OF. astronomien. See Astronomy.]

Defn: An astrologer. [Obs.]

ASTRONOMIC
As`tro*nom"ic, a.

Defn: Astronomical.

ASTRONOMICAL
As`tro*nom"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. astronomicus, Gr. astronomique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to astronomy; in accordance with the methods
or principles of astronomy.
 -- As`tro*nom"ic*al*ly, adv. Astronomical clock. See under Clock.
 -- Astronomical day. See under Day.
 -- Astronomical fractions, Astronomical numbers. See under
Sexagesimal.

ASTRONOMIZE
As*tron"o*mize, v. i. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To study or to talk astronomy. [R.]
They astronomized in caves. Sir T. Browne.

ASTRONOMY
As*tron"o*my, n. Etym: [OE. astronomie, F. astronomie, L. astronomia,
fr. Gr. Star, and Nomad.]

1. Astrology. [Obs.]
Not from the stars do I my judgment pluck; And yet methinks I have
astronomy. Shak.

2. The science which treats of the celestial bodies, of their
magnitudes, motions, distances, periods of revolution, eclipses,
constitution, physical condition, and of the causes of their various
phenomena.

3. A treatise on, or text-book of, the science. Physical astronomy.
See under Physical.

ASTROPHEL
As"tro*phel, n.

Defn: See Astrofel. [Obs.]

ASTROPHOTOGRAPHY
As`tro*pho*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Astro- + photography.]

Defn: The application of photography to the delineation of the sun,
moon, and stars.

ASTROPHOTOMETER
As`tro*pho*tom"e*ter, n. [Pref. astro- + photometer.] (Astron.)

Defn: A photometer for measuring the brightness of stars.

ASTROPHOTOMETRY
As`tro*pho*tom"e*try, n. (Astron.)

Defn: The determination of the brightness of stars, and also of the
sun, moon, and planets. --As`tro*pho`to*met"ric*al (#), a.

ASTROPHYSICAL
As`tro*phys"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the physics of astronomical science.

ASTROPHYSICS
As`tro*phys"ics, n.  [Astro-+ physics.] (Astron.)

Defn: The science treating of the physical characteristics of the
stars and other heavenly bodies, their chemical constitution, light,
heat, atmospheres, etc.

 Its observations are made with the spectroscope, bolometer, etc.,
usually in connection with the telescope.

ASTROPHYTON
As*troph"y*ton, n. Etym: [Astro- + Gr. fyton a plant.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of ophiurans having the arms much branched.

ASTROSCOPE
As"tro*scope, n. Etym: [Astro- + scope.]

Defn: An old astronomical instrument, formed of two cones, on whose
surface the constellations were delineated.

ASTROSCOPY
As*tros"co*py, n.

Defn: Observation of the stars. [Obs.]

ASTROTHEOLOGY
As`tro*the*ol"*o*gy, n. Etym: [Astro- + theology.]

Defn: Theology founded on observation or knowledge of the celestial
bodies. Derham.

ASTRUCTIVE
A*struc"tive, a. Etym: [L. astructus, p. p. of astruere to build up;
ad + struere to build.]

Defn: Building up; constructive; -- opposed to destructive. [Obs.]

ASTRUT
A*strut", a. & adv.

1. Sticking out, or puffed out; swelling; in a swelling manner.
[Archaic]
Inflated and astrut with self-conceit. Cowper.

2. In a strutting manner; with a strutting gait.

ASTUCIOUS
As*tu"cious, a. Etym: [F. astucieux. See Astute.]

Defn: Subtle; cunning; astute. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
 -- As*tu"cious*ly, adv. [R.]

ASTUCITY
As*tu"ci*ty, n. Etym: [See Astucious.]

Defn: Craftiness; astuteness. [R.] Carlyle.

ASTUN
A*stun", v. t. Etym: [See Astony, Stun.]

Defn: To stun. [Obs.] "Breathless and astunned." Somerville.

ASTURIAN
As*tu"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Asturias in Spain.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Asturias.

ASTUTE
As*tute", a. Etym: [L. astutus, fr. astus craft, cunning; perh.
cognate with E. acute.]

Defn: Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.

Syn.
 -- Keen; eagle-eyed; penetrating; skilled; discriminating; cunning;
sagacious; subtle; wily; crafty. As*tute"ly, adv.
 -- As*tute"ness, n.

ASTYLAR
A*sty"lar, a. Etym: [Gr. (arch.)

Defn: Without columns or pilasters. Weale.

ASTYLLEN
A*styl"len, n. (Mining)

Defn: A small dam to prevent free passage of water in an adit or
level.

ASUNDER
A*sun"der, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + sunder.]

Defn: Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two;
separately; into or in different pieces or places.
I took my staff, even Beauty, and cut it asunder. Zech. xi. 10.
As wide asunder as pole and pole. Froude.

ASURA
A*su"ra, n. (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants.

ASWAIL
As"wail, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus) of India.

ASWEVE
A*sweve", v. t. Etym: [AS. aswebban; a + swebban. See Sweven.]

Defn: To stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ASWING
A*swing", adv.

Defn: In a state of swinging.

ASWOON
A*swoon", adv.

Defn: In a swoon. Chaucer.

ASWOONED
A*swooned", adv.

Defn: In a swoon.

ASYLUM
A*sy"lum, n.; pl. E. Asylums, L. Asyla. Etym: [L. asylum, Gr.

1. A sanctuary or place of refuge and protection, where criminals and
debtors found shelter, and from which they could not be forcibly
taken without sacrilege.
So sacred was the church to some, that it had the right of an asylum
or sanctuary. Ayliffe.

Note: The name was anciently given to temples, altars, statues of the
gods, and the like. In later times Christian churches were regarded
as asylums in the same sense.

2. Any place of retreat and security.
Earth has no other asylum for them than its own cold bosom. Southey.

3. An institution for the protection or relief of some class of
destitute, unfortunate, or afflicted persons; as, an asylum for the
aged, for the blind, or for the insane; a lunatic asylum; an orphan
asylum.

ASYMMETRAL
A*sym"me*tral, a.

Defn: Incommensurable; also, unsymmetrical. [Obs.] D. H. More.

ASYMMETRIC; ASYMMETRICAL
As`ym*met"ric, As`ym*met"ri*cal, a. Etym: [See Asymmetrous.]

1. Incommensurable. [Obs.]

2. Not symmetrical; wanting proportion; esp., not bilaterally
symmetrical. Huxley.

ASYMMETROUS
A*sym"me*trous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Asymmetrical. [Obs.] Barrow.

ASYMMETRY
A*sym"me*try, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. Want of symmetry, or proportion between the parts of a thing, esp.
want of bilateral symmetry.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Incommensurability. [Obs.] Barrow.

ASYMPTOTE
As"ymp*tote, n. Etym: [Gr. Symptom.] (Math.)

Defn: A line which approaches nearer to some curve than assignable
distance, but, though infinitely extended, would never meet it.
Asymptotes may be straight lines or curves. A rectilinear asymptote
may be conceived as a tangent to the curve at an infinite distance.

ASYNARTETE
A*syn"ar*tete`, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Disconnected; not fitted or adjusted.
 -- A*syn"ar*tet"ic, a. Asynartete verse (Pros.), a verse of two
members, having different rhythms; as when the first consists of
iambuses and the second of trochees.

ASYNCHRONOUS
A*syn"chro*nous, a. [Gr.  not + synchronous.]

Defn: Not simultaneous; not concurrent in time; --opposed to
synchronous.

ASYNDETIC
As`yn*det"ic, a. Etym: [See Asyndeton.]

Defn: Characterized by the use of asyndeton; not connected by
conjunctions.
 -- As`yn*det"ic*al*ly, adv.

ASYNDETON
A*syn"de*ton, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure which omits the connective; as, I came, I saw, I
conquered. It stands opposed to polysyndeton.

ASYSTOLE
A*sys"to*le, n. Etym: [Pref. a- not + systole.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A weakening or cessation of the contractile power of the heart.

ASYSTOLISM
A*sys"to*lism, n.

Defn: The state or symptoms characteristic of asystole.

AT
At, prep. Etym: [AS. æt; akin to OHG. az, Goth., OS., & Icel. at, Sw.
åt, Dan. & L. ad.]

Defn: Primarily, this word expresses the relations of presence,
nearness in place or time, or direction toward; as, at the ninth
hour; at the house; to aim at a mark. It is less definite than in or
on; at the house may be in or near the house. From this original
import are derived all the various uses of at. It expresses: -

1. A relation of proximity to, or of presence in or on, something;
as, at the door; at your shop; at home; at school; at hand; at sea
and on land.

2. The relation of some state or condition; as, at war; at peace; at
ease; at your service; at fault; at liberty; at risk; at
disadvantage.

3. The relation of some employment or action; occupied with; as, at
engraving; at husbandry; at play; at work; at meat (eating); except
at puns.

4. The relation of a point or position in a series, or of degree,
rate, or value; as, with the thermometer at 80º; goods sold at a
cheap price; a country estimated at 10,000 square miles; life is
short at the longest.

5. The relations of time, age, or order; as, at ten o'clock; at
twenty-one; at once; at first.

6. The relations of source, occasion, reason, consequence, or effect;
as, at the sight; at this news; merry at anything; at this
declaration; at his command; to demand, require, receive, deserve,
endure at your hands.

7. Relation of direction toward an object or end; as, look at it; to
point at one; to aim at a mark; to throw, strike, shoot, wink, mock,
laugh at any one. At all, At home, At large, At last, At length, At
once, etc. See under All, Home, Large, Last (phrase and syn.),
Length, Once, etc.
 -- At it, busily or actively engaged.
 -- At least. See Least and However.
 -- At one. See At one, in the Vocabulary.

Syn.
 -- In, At. When reference to the interior of any place is made
prominent in is used. It is used before the names of countries and
cities (esp. large cities); as, we live in America, in New York, in
the South. At is commonly employed before names of houses,
institutions, villages, and small places; as, Milton was educated at
Christ's College; money taken in at the Customhouse; I saw him at the
jeweler's; we live at Beachville. At may be used before the name of a
city when it is regarded as a mere point of locality. "An English
king was crowned at Paris." Macaulay. "Jean Jacques Rousseau was born
at Geneva, June, 28, 1712." J. Morley. In regard to time, we say at
the hour, on the day, in the year; as, at 9 o'clock, on the morning
of July 5th, in the year 1775.

ATABAL
At"a*bal, n. Etym: [Sp. atabal, fr. Ar. at-tabl the drum, tabala to
beat the drum. Cf. Tymbal.]

Defn: A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors. Croly.

ATACAMITE
A*tac"a*mite, n. Etym: [From the desert of Atacama, where found.]
(Min.)

Defn: An oxychloride of copper, usually in emerald-green prismatic
crystals.

ATAFTER
At`aft"er, prep.

Defn: After. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATAGHAN
At"a*ghan, n.

Defn: See Yataghan.

ATAKE
A*take", v. t.

Defn: To overtake. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATAMAN
At"a*man, n. Etym: [Russ. ataman': cf. Pol. hetman, G. hauptmann
headman, chieftain. Cf. Hetman.]

Defn: A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks.

ATAMASCO LILY
At`a*mas"co lil"y. [Atamasco is fr. North American Indian.] (Bot.)

Defn: See under Lily.

ATARAXIA; ATARAXY
At`a*rax"i*a, At"a*rax`y, n. Etym: [NL. ataraxia, Gr.

Defn: Perfect peace of mind, or calmness.

ATAUNT; ATAUNTO
A*taunt", A*taunt"o, adv. Etym: [F. autant as much (as possible).]
(Naut.)

Defn: Fully rigged, as a vessel; with all sails set; set on end or
set right.

ATAVIC
A*tav"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atavique.]

Defn: Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism.

ATAVISM
At"a*vism, n. Etym: [L. atavus an ancestor, fr. avus a grandfather.]
(a) The recurrence, or a tendency to a recurrence, of the original
type of a species in the progeny of its varieties; resemblance to
remote rather than to near ancestors; reversion to the original form.
(b) (Biol.) The recurrence of any peculiarity or disease of an
ancestor in a subsequent generation, after an intermission for a
generation or two.
Now and then there occur cases of what physiologists call atavism, or
reversion to an ancestral type of character. J. Fiske

ATAXIA; ATAXY
A*tax"i*a, At"ax*y, n. Etym: [NL. ataxia, Gr. ataxie.]

1. Disorder; irregularity. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

2. (Med.)
(a) Irregularity in disease, or in the functions.
(b) The state of disorder that characterizes nervous fevers and the
nervous condition. Locomotor ataxia. See Locomotor.

ATAXIC
A*tax"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ataxique. See Ataxia.] (Med.)

Defn: Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a) by great irregularity of
functions or symptoms, or (b) by a want of coordinating power in
movements. Ataxic fever, malignant typhus fever. Pinel.

ATAZIR
At`a*zir", n. Etym: [OF., fr. Ar. al-tasir influence.] (Astron.)

Defn: The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

ATE
Ate,

Defn: the preterit of Eat.

ATE
A"te, n. Etym: [Gr. (Greek. Myth.)

Defn: The goddess of mischievous folly; also, in later poets, the
goddess of vengeance.

-ATE
-ate. Etym: [From the L. suffix -atus, the past participle ending of
verbs of the 1st conj.]

1. As an ending of participles or participial adjectives it is
equivalent to -ed; as, situate or situated; animate or animated.

2. As the ending of a verb, it means to make, to cause, to act, etc.;
as, to propitiate (to make propitious); to animate (to give life to).

3. As a noun suffix, it marks the agent; as, curate, delegate. It
also sometimes marks the office or dignity; as, tribunate.

4. In chemistry it is used to denote the salts formed from those
acids whose names end -ic (excepting binary or halogen acids); as,
sulphate from sulphuric acid, nitrate from nitric acid, etc. It is
also used in the case of certain basic salts.

ATECHNIC
A*tech"nic, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + technic.]

Defn: Without technical or artistic knowledge.
Difficult to convey to the atechnic reader. Etching & Engr.

ATELES
At"e*les, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and having
the thumb wanting or rudimentary. See Spider monkey, and Coaita.

ATELETS SAUCE; SAUCE AUX HATELETS
A`te*lets" sauce or  Sauce` aux ha`te*lets". [F. hâtelet skewer.]

Defn: A sauce (such as egg and bread crumbs) used for covering bits
of meat, small birds, or fish, strung on skewers for frying.

ATELIER
A`te*lier" n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A workshop; a studio.

ATELLAN
A*tel"lan, a. Etym: [L. Atellanus, fr. Atella, an ancient town of the
Osci, in Campania.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Atella, in ancient Italy; as, Atellan
plays; farcical; ribald.
 -- n.

Defn: A farcical drama performed at Atella.

ATHALAMOUS
A*thal"a*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Not furnished with shields or beds for the spores, as the
thallus of certain lichens.

ATHAMAUNT
Ath"a*maunt, n.

Defn: Adamant. [Obs.]
Written in the table of athamaunt. Chaucer.

ATHANASIA; ATHANASY
Ath`a*na"si*a, A*than"a*sy, n. [NL. athanasia, fr. Gr. ;   priv. +
death.]

Defn: The quality of being deathless; immortality.

Is not a scholiastic athanasy better than none
Lowell.

ATHANASIAN
Ath`a*na"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Athanasius, bishop of Alexandria in the 4th
century. Athanasian creed, a formulary, confession, or exposition of
faith, formerly supposed to have been drawn up by Athanasius; but
this opinion is now rejected, and the composition is ascribed by some
to Hilary, bishop of Arles (5th century). It is a summary of what was
called the orthodox faith.

ATHANOR
Ath"a*nor, n. Etym: [F., fr. Ar. at-tannur, fr. Heb. tannur an oven
or furnace.]

Defn: A digesting furnace, formerly used by alchemists. It was so
constructed as to maintain uniform and durable heat. Chambers.

ATHECATA
Ath`e*ca"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A division of Hydroidea in which the zooids are naked, or not
inclosed in a capsule. See Tubularian.

ATHEISM
A"the*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. athéisme. See Atheist.]

1. The disbelief or denial of the existence of a God, or supreme
intelligent Being.
Atheism is a ferocious system, that leaves nothing above us to excite
awe, nor around us to awaken tenderness. R. Hall.
Atheism and pantheism are often wrongly confounded. Shipley.

2. Godlessness.

ATHEIST
A"the*ist, n. Etym: [Gr. athéiste.]

1. One who disbelieves or denies the existence of a God, or supreme
intelligent Being.

2. A godless person. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- Infidel; unbeliever.

Note: See Infidel.

ATHEISTIC; ATHEISTICAL
A`the*is"tic, A`the*is"tic*al, a.

1. Pertaining to, implying, or containing, atheism; -- applied to
things; as, atheistic doctrines, opinions, or books.
Atheistical explications of natural effects. Barrow.

2. Disbelieving the existence of a God; impious; godless; -- applied
to persons; as, an atheistic writer.
 -- A`the*is"tic*al*ly, adv.
 -- A`the*is"tic*al*ness, n.

ATHEIZE
A"the*ize, v. t.

Defn: To render atheistic or godless. [R.]
They endeavored to atheize one another. Berkeley.

ATHEIZE
A"the*ize, v. i.

Defn: To discourse, argue, or act as an atheist. [R.] -- A"the*i`zer,
n. Cudworth.

ATHELING
Ath"el*ing, n. Etym: [AS. æ noble, fr. æ noble, akin to G. adel
nobility, edel noble. The word æ, E. ethel, is in many AS. proper
names, as Ethelwolf, noble wolf; Ethelbald, noble bold; Ethelbert,
noble bright.]

Defn: An Anglo-Saxon prince or nobleman; esp., the heir apparent or a
prince of the royal family. [Written also Adeling and Ætheling.]

ATHENEUM; ATHENAEUM
Ath`e*ne"um, Ath`e*næ"um, n.; pl. E. Atheneums, L. Athenæa. Etym: [L.
Athenaemum, Gr. Minerva by the Romans), the tutelary goddess of
Athens.]

1 (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A temple of Athene, at Athens, in which scholars and poets were
accustomed to read their works and instruct students.

2. A school founded at Rome by Hadrian.

3. A literary or scientific association or club.

4. A building or an apartment where a library, periodicals, and
newspapers are kept for use.

ATHENIAN
A*the"ni*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. Athénien.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Athens, the metropolis of Greece.
 -- n. A native or citizen of Athens.

ATHEOLOGICAL
A`the*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Opposed to theology; atheistic. Bp. Montagu.

ATHEOLOGY
A`the*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Pref. a- not + theology.]

Defn: Antagonism to theology. Swift.

ATHEOUS
A"the*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. Atheist.]

1. Atheistic; impious. [Obs.] Milton.

2. Without God, neither accepting nor denying him.
I should say science was atheous, and therefore could not be
atheistic. Bp. of Carlisle.

ATHERINE
Ath"er*ine, n. Etym: [NL. atherina, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small marine fish of the family Atherinidæ, having a silvery
stripe along the sides. The European species (Atherina presbyter) is
used as food. The American species (Menidia notata) is called
silversides and sand smelt. See Silversides.

ATHERMANCY
A*ther"man*cy, n. Etym: [See Athermanous.]

Defn: Inability to transmit radiant; impermeability to heat. Tyndall.

ATHERMANOUS
A*ther"ma*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. athermane.] (Chem.)

Defn: Not transmitting heat; -- opposed to diathermanous.

ATHERMOUS
A*ther"mous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Athermanous.

ATHEROID
Ath"er*oid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Shaped like an ear of grain.

ATHEROMA
Ath`e*ro"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) An encysted tumor containing curdy matter.
(b) A disease characterized by thickening and fatty degeneration of
the inner coat of the arteries.

ATHEROMATOUS
Ath`e*rom"a*tous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or having the nature of, atheroma. Wiseman.

ATHETIZE
Ath"e*tize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Athetized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Athetizing.] [Gr. , fr.  set aside, not fixed;  not +  to place.]

Defn: To set aside or reject as spurious, as by marking with an
obelus.

ATHETOSIS
Ath`e*to"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A variety of chorea, marked by peculiar tremors of the fingers
and toes.

ATHINK
A*think", v. t.

Defn: To repent; to displease; to disgust. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATHIRST
A*thirst", a. Etym: [OE. ofthurst, AS. ofpyrsted, p. p. of ofpyrstan;
pref. of-, intensive + pyrstan to thirst. See Thirst.]

1. Wanting drink; thirsty.

2. Having a keen appetite or desire; eager; longing. "Athirst for
battle." Cowper.

ATHLETE
Ath"lete, n. Etym: [L. athleta, Gr. wed: cf. F. athlète.]

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: One who contended for a prize in the public games of ancient
Greece or Rome.

2. Any one trained to contend in exercises requiring great physical
agility and strength; one who has great activity and strength; a
champion.

3. One fitted for, or skilled in, intellectual contests; as, athletes
of debate.

ATHLETIC
Ath`let"ic, a. Etym: [L. athleticus, Gr. Athlete.]

1. Of or pertaining to athletes or to the exercises practiced by
them; as, athletic games or sports.

2. Befitting an athlete; strong; muscular; robust; vigorous; as,
athletic Celts. "Athletic soundness." South.
 -- Ath*let"ic*al*ly, adv.

ATHLETICISM
Ath*let"i*cism, n.

Defn: The practice of engaging in athletic games; athletism.

ATHLETICS
Ath*let"ics, n.

Defn: The art of training by athletic exercises; the games and sports
of athletes.

ATHLETISM
Ath"le*tism, n.

Defn: The state or practice of an athlete; the characteristics of an
athlete.

ATHREPSIA
A*threp"si*a, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  priv. +  nourishment.] (Med.)

Defn: Profound debility of children due to lack of food and to
unhygienic surroundings. --A*threp"tic (#), a.

ATHWART
A*thwart", prep. Etym: [Pref. a- + thwart.]

1. Across; from side to side of.
Athwart the thicket lone. Tennyson.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Across the direction or course of; as, a fleet standing athwart
our course. Athwart hawse, across the stem of another vessel, whether
in contact or at a small distance.
 -- Athwart ships, across the ship from side to side, or in that
direction; -- opposed to fore and aft.

ATHWART
A*thwart", adv.

Defn: 1. Across, especially in an oblique direction; sidewise;
obliquely.
Sometimes athwart, sometimes he strook him straight. Spenser.

2. Across the course; so as to thwart; perversely.
All athwart there came A post from Wales loaden with heavy news.
Shak.

ATILT
A*tilt", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + tilt.]

1. In the manner of a tilter; in the position, or with the action, of
one making a thrust. "To run atilt at men." Hudibras.

2. In the position of a cask tilted, or with one end raised.

Note: [In this sense sometimes used as an adjective.]
Abroach, atilt, and run Even to the lees of honor. Beau. & Fl.

ATIMY
At"i*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights.
Mitford.

-ATION
-a"tion. Etym: [L. -ationem. See -tion.]

Defn: A suffix forming nouns of action, and often equivalent to the
verbal substantive in -ing. It sometimes has the further meanings of
state, and that which results from the action. Many of these nouns
have verbs in -ate; as, alliterate -ation, narrate -ation; many are
derived through the French; as, alteration, visitation; and many are
formed on verbs ending in the Greek formative -ize (Fr. -ise); as,
civilization, demoralization.

A-TIPTOE
A-tip"toe, adv.

Defn: On tiptoe; eagerly expecting.
We all feel a-tiptoe with hope and confidence. F. Harrison.

ATLANTA
At*lan"ta, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of small glassy heteropod mollusks found swimming at
the surface in mid ocean. See Heteropod.

ATLANTAL
At*lan"tal, a. (Anat.)
(a) Relating to the atlas.
(b) Anterior; cephalic. Barclay.

ATLANTEAN
At`lan*te"an, a. Etym: [L. Atlant.]

1. Of or pertaining to the isle Atlantis, which the ancients allege
was sunk, and overwhelmed by the ocean.

2. Pertaining to, or resembling, Atlas; strong.
With Atlantean shoulders, fit to bear The weight of mightiest
monarchies. Milton.

ATLANTES
At*lan"tes, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Atlas.] (Arch.)

Defn: Figures or half figures of men, used as columns to support an
entablature; -- called also telamones. See Caryatides. Oxf. Gloss.

ATLANTIC
At*lan"tic, a. Etym: [L. Atlanticus, fr. Atlas. See Atlas and
Atlantes.]

1. Of or pertaining to Mt. Atlas in Libya, and hence applied to the
ocean which lies between Europe and Africa on the east and America on
the west; as, the Atlantic Ocean (called also the Atlantic); the
Atlantic basin; the Atlantic telegraph.

2. Of or pertaining to the isle of Atlantis.

3. Descended from Atlas.
The seven Atlantic sisters. Milton.

ATLANTIDES
At*lan"ti*des, n. pl. Etym: [L. See Atlantes.]

Defn: The Pleiades or seven stars, fabled to have been the daughters
of Atlas.

ATLAS
At"las, n.; pl. Atlases. Etym: [L. Atlas, -antis, Gr. Atlas, in W.
Africa, regarded as the pillar of heaven. It is from the root of
Tolerate.]

1. One who sustains a great burden.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The first vertebra of the neck, articulating immediately with
the skull, thus sustaining the globe of the head, whence the name.

3. A collection of maps in a volume; --

Note: supposed to be so called from a picture of Atlas supporting the
world, prefixed to some collections. This name is said to have been
first used by Mercator, the celebrated geographer, in the 16th
century.

Note:

4. A volume of plates illustrating any subject.

5. A work in which subjects are exhibited in a tabular from or
arrangement; as, an historical atlas.

6. A large, square folio, resembling a volume of maps; -- called also
atlas folio.

7. A drawing paper of large size. See under Paper, n. Atlas powder, a
nitroglycerin blasting compound of pasty consistency and great
explosive power.

ATLAS
At"las, n. Etym: [Ar., smooth.]

Defn: A rich kind of satin manufactured in India. Brande & C.

ATLAS POWDER
At"las pow"der.

Defn: A blasting powder or dynamite composed of nitroglycerin, wood
fiber, sodium nitrate, and magnesium carbonate.

ATMAN
At"man, n. [Skr. atman.] (Hinduism)
 (a) The life principle, soul, or individual essence.
 (b) The universal ego from whom all individual atmans arise. This
sense is a European excrescence on the East Indian thought.

ATMIATRY
At*mi"a*try, n. [Gr.  vapor +  medical treatment, healing.]

Defn: Treatment of disease by vapors or gases, as by inhalation.

ATMIDOMETER
At`mi*dom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter; cf. F. atmidomètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the evaporation from water, ice, or
snow. Brande & C.

ATMO
At"mo, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. atmosphere.] (Physics)

Defn: The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physical
measurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under which
the barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0º
Centigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris.
Sir W. Thomson.

ATMOLOGIC; ATMOLOGICAL
At`mo*log"ic, At`mo*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to atmology. "Atmological laws of heat."
Whewell.

ATMOLOGIST
At*mol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who is versed in atmology.

ATMOLOGY
At*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Physics)

Defn: That branch of science which treats of the laws and phenomena
of aqueous vapor. Whewell.

ATMOLYSIS
At*mol"y*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of separating mingled gases of unequal
diffusibility by transmission through porous substances.

ATMOLYZATION
At`mol*y*za"tion, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Separation by atmolysis.

ATMOLYZE
At"mo*lyze, v. t. (Chem.)

Defn: To subject to atmolysis; to separate by atmolysis.

ATMOLYZER
At"mo*ly`zer, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus for effecting atmolysis.

ATMOMETER
At*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. atmomètre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the rate of evaporation from a
moist surface; an evaporometer. Huxley.

ATMOSPHERE
At"mos*phere, n. Etym: [Gr. atman breath, soul, G. athem breath) +
atmosphère. See Sphere.]

1. (Physics)
(a) The whole mass of aëriform fluid surrounding the earth; --
applied also to the gaseous envelope of any celestial orb, or other
body; as, the atmosphere of Mars.
(b) Any gaseous envelope or medium.
An atmosphere of cold oxygen. Miller.

2. A supposed medium around various bodies; as, electrical
atmosphere, a medium formerly supposed to surround electrical bodies.
Franklin.

3. The pressure or weight of the air at the sea level, on a unit of
surface, or about 14.7 Ibs. to the sq. inch.
Hydrogen was liquefied under a pressure of 650 atmospheres. Lubbock.

4. Any surrounding or pervading influence or condition.
The chillest of social atmospheres. Hawthorne.

5. The portion of air in any locality, or affected by a special
physical or sanitary condition; as, the atmosphere of the room; a
moist or noxious atmosphere.

ATMOSPHERIC; ATMOSPHERICAL
At`mos*pher"ic, At`mos*pher"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atmosphérique.]

1. Of or pertaining to the atmosphere; of the nature of, or
resembling, the atmosphere; as, atmospheric air; the atmospheric
envelope of the earth.

2. Existing in the atmosphere.
The lower atmospheric current. Darwin.

3. Caused, or operated on, by the atmosphere; as, an atmospheric
effect; an atmospheric engine.

4. Dependent on the atmosphere. [R.]
In am so atmospherical a creature. Pope.
Atmospheric engine, a steam engine whose piston descends by the
pressure of the atmosphere, when the steam which raised it is
condensed within the cylinder. Tomlinson.
 -- Atmospheric line (Steam Engin.), the equilibrium line of an
indicator card. Steam is expanded "down to the atmosphere" when its
pressure is equal to that of the atmosphere. (See Indicator card.) --
Atmospheric pressure, the pressure exerted by the atmosphere, not
merely downwards, but in every direction. In amounts to about 14.7
Ibs. on each square inch.
 -- Atmospheric railway, one in which pneumatic power, obtained from
compressed air or the creation of a vacuum, is the propelling force.
 -- Atmospheric tides. See under Tide.

ATMOSPHERICALLY
At`mos*pher"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In relation to the atmosphere.

ATMOSPHEROLOGY
At`mos*phe*rol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Atmosphere + -logy.]

Defn: The science or a treatise on the atmosphere.

ATOKOUS
At"o*kous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Producing only asexual individuals, as the eggs of certain
annelids.

ATOLE
A*to"le, n. [Mex. Sp.]

Defn: A porridge or gruel of maize meal and water, milk, or the like.
[Sp. Amer.]

ATOLL
A*toll", n. Etym: [The native name in the Indian Ocean.]

Defn: A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef,
partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; a
lagoon island.

ATOM
At"om, n. Etym: [L. atomus, Gr. atome. See Tome.]

1. (Physics)
(a) An ultimate indivisible particle of matter.
(b) An ultimate particle of matter not necessarily indivisible; a
molecule.
(c) A constituent particle of matter, or a molecule supposed to be
made up of subordinate particles.

Note: These three definitions correspond to different views of the
nature of the ultimate particles of matter. In the case of the last
two, the particles are more correctly called molecules. Dana.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The smallest particle of matter that can enter into
combination; one of the elementary constituents of a molecule.

3. Anything extremely small; a particle; a whit.
There was not an atom of water. Sir J. Ross.

ATOM
At"om, v. t.

Defn: To reduce to atoms. [Obs.] Feltham.

ATOMIC; ATOMICAL
A*tom"ic, A*tom"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atomique.]

1. Of or pertaining to atoms.

2. Extremely minute; tiny. Atomic philosophy, or Doctrine of atoms, a
system which assuming that atoms are endued with gravity and motion
accounted thus for the origin and formation of all things. This
philosophy was first broached by Leucippus, was developed by
Democritus, and afterward improved by Epicurus, and hence is
sometimes denominated the Epicurean philosophy.
 -- Atomic theory, or the Doctrine of definite proportions (Chem.),
teaches that chemical combinations take place between the supposed
ultimate particles or atoms of bodies, in some simple ratio, as of
one to one, two to three, or some other, always expressible in whole
numbers.
 -- Atomic weight (Chem.), the weight of the atom of an element as
compared with the weight of the atom of hydrogen, taken as a
standard.

ATOMICALLY
A*tom"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an atomic manner; in accordance with the atomic philosophy.

ATOMICIAN
At`o*mi"cian, n.

Defn: An atomist. [R.]

ATOMICISM
A*tom"i*cism, n.

Defn: Atomism. [Obs.]

ATOMICITY
At`o*mic"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. atomicité.] (Chem.)

Defn: Degree of atomic attraction; equivalence; valence; also (a
later use) the number of atoms in an elementary molecule. See
Valence.

ATOMISM
At"om*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. atomisme.]

Defn: The doctrine of atoms. See Atomic philosophy, under Atomic.

ATOMIST
At"om*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. atomiste.]

Defn: One who holds to the atomic philosophy or theory. Locke.

ATOMISTIC
At`om*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to atoms; relating to atomism. [R.]
It is the object of the mechanical atomistic philosophy to confound
synthesis with synartesis. Coleridge.

ATOMIZATION
At`om*i*za"tion, n.

1. The act of reducing to atoms, or very minute particles; or the
state of being so reduced.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The reduction of fluids into fine spray.

ATOMIZE
At"om*ize, v. t.

Defn: To reduce to atoms, or to fine spray.
The liquids in the form of spray are said to be pulverized,
nebulized, or atomized. Dunglison.

ATOMIZER
At"om*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, atomizes; esp., an instrument for
reducing a liquid to spray for disinfecting, cooling, or perfuming.

ATOMOLOGY
At`om*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Atom + -logy.]

Defn: The doctrine of atoms. Cudworth.

ATOMY
At"om*y, n.

Defn: An atom; a mite; a pigmy.

ATOMY
At"o*my, n. Etym: [For anatomy, taken as an atomy.]

Defn: A skeleton. [Ludicrous] Shak.

ATONABLE
A*ton"a*ble, a.

Defn: Admitting an atonement; capable of being atoned for; expiable.

AT ONE
At one". Etym: [OE. at on, atone, atoon, attone.]

1. In concord or friendship; in agreement (with each other); as, to
be, bring, make, or set, at one, i. e., to be or bring in or to a
state of agreement or reconciliation.
If gentil men, or othere of hir contree Were wrothe, she wolde
bringen hem atoon. Chaucer.

2. Of the same opinion; agreed; as, on these points we are at one.

3. Together. [Obs.] Spenser.
He and Aufidius can no more atone Than violentest contrariety. Shak.

2. To stand as an equivalent; to make reparation, compensation, or
amends, for an offense or a crime.
The murderer fell, and blood atoned for blood. Pope.
The ministry not atoning for their former conduct by any wise or
popular measure. Junius.

ATONE
A*tone", v. t.

1. To set at one; to reduce to concord; to reconcile, as parties at
variance; to appease. [Obs.]
I would do much To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio. Shak.

2. To unite in making. [Obs. & R.]
The four elements . . . have atoned A noble league. Ford.

3. To make satisfaction for; to expiate.
Or each atone his guilty love with life. Pope.

ATONEMENT
A*tone"ment, n.

1. (Literally, a setting at one.) Reconciliation; restoration of
friendly relations; agreement; concord. [Archaic]
By whom we have now received the atonement. Rom. v. 11.
He desires to make atonement Betwixt the Duke of Gloucester and your
brothers. Shak.

2. Satisfaction or reparation made by giving an equivalent for an
injury, or by doing of suffering that which will be received in
satisfaction for an offense or injury; expiation; amends; -- with
for. Specifically, in theology: The expiation of sin made by the
obedience, personal suffering, and death of Christ.
When a man has been guilty of any vice, the best atonement be can
make for it is, to warn others. Spectator.
The Phocians behaved with, so much gallantry, that they were thought
to have made a sufficient atonement for their former offense. Potter.

ATONER
A*ton"er, n.

Defn: One who makes atonement.

ATONES
At*ones, adv.

Defn: Etym: [See At one.] [Obs.]
Down he fell atones as a stone. Chaucer.

ATONIC
A*ton"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atonique. See Atony.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonic
disease.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Unaccented; as, an atonic syllable.

3. Destitute of tone vocality; surd. Rush.

ATONIC
A*ton"ic, n.

1. (Gram.)

Defn: A word that has no accent.

2. An element of speech entirely destitute of vocality, or produced
by the breath alone; a nonvocal or surd consonant; a breathing. Rush.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy capable of allaying organic excitement or irritation.
Dunglison.

ATONY
At"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. atonie.] (Med.)

Defn: Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ,
especially of such as are contractile.

ATOP
A*top", adv.

Defn: On or at the top. Milton.

ATRABILARIAN; ATRABILARIOUS
At`ra*bi*la"ri*an, At`ra*bi*la"ri*ous, a. Etym: [LL. atrabilarius,
fr. L. atra bilis black bile: cf. F. atrabilaire, fr. atrabile.]

Defn: Affected with melancholy; atrabilious. Arbuthnot.

ATRABILARIAN
At`ra*bi*la"ri*an, n.

Defn: A person much given to melancholy; a hypochondriac. I.
Disraeli.

ATRABILIAR
At`ra*bil"iar, a.

Defn: Melancholy; atrabilious.

ATRABILIARY
At`ra*bil"ia*ry, a.

1. Of or pertaining to atra bilis or black bile, a fluid formerly
supposed to be produced by the kidneys.

2. Melancholic or hypohondriac; atrabilious; -- from the supposed
predominance of black bile, to the influence of which the ancients
attributed hypochondria, melancholy, and mania. Atrabiliary arteries,
capsules, and veins (Anat.), those pertaining to the kidney; --
called also renal arteries, capsules, and veins.

ATRABILIOUS
At`ra*bil"ious, a.

Defn: Melancholic or hypochondriac; atrabiliary. Dunglision.
A hard-faced, atrabilious, earnest-eyed race. Lowell.
He was constitutionally atrabilious and scornful. Froude.

ATRAMENTACEOUS
At`ra*men*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. atramentum ink, fr. ater black.]

Defn: Black, like ink; inky; atramental. [Obs.] Derham.

ATRAMENTAL; ATRAMENTOUS
At`ra*men"tal, At`ra*men"tous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to ink; inky; black, like ink; as, atramental
galls; atramentous spots.

ATRAMENTARIOUS
At`ra*men*ta"ri*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. atramentaire. See
Atramentaceous.]

Defn: Like ink; suitable for making ink. Sulphate of iron (copperas,
green vitriol) is called atramentarious, as being used in making ink.

ATREDE
At*rede, v. t. Etym: [OE. at (AS. æt) out + rede.]

Defn: To surpass in council. [Obs.]
Men may the olde atrenne, but hat atrede. Chaucer.

ATRENNE
At*renne", v. t. Etym: [OE. at + renne to run.]

Defn: To outrun. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATRESIA
A*tre"si*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Absence or closure of a natural passage or channel of the body;
imperforation.

ATRIAL
A"tri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an atrium.

ATRIP
A*trip", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + trip.] (Naut.)
(a) Just hove clear of the ground; -said of the anchor.
(b) Sheeted home, hoisted taut up and ready for trimming; -- said of
sails.
(c) Hoisted up and ready to be swayed across; -- said of yards.

ATRIUM
A"tri*um, n.; pl. Atria. Etym: [L., the fore court of a Roman house.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) A square hall lighted from above, into which rooms open at one or
more levels.
(b) An open court with a porch or gallery around three or more sides;
especially at the entrance of a basilica or other church. The name
was extended in the Middle Ages to the open churchyard or cemetery.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The main part of either auricle of the heart as distinct from
the auricular appendix. Also, the whole articular portion of the
heart.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cavity in ascidians into which the intestine and generative
ducts open, and which also receives the water from the gills. See
Ascidioidea.

ATROCHA
At`ro*cha, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of chætopod larva in which no circles of cilia are
developed.

ATROCIOUS
A*tro"cious, a. Etym: [L. atrox, atrocis, cruel, fierce: cf. F.
atroce.]

1. Extremely heinous; full of enormous wickedness; as, atrocious
quilt or deeds.

2. Characterized by, or expressing, great atrocity, great atrocity.
Revelations . . . so atrocious that nothing in history approaches
them. De Quincey.

3. Very grievous or violent; terrible; as, atrocious distempers.
[Obs.] Cheyne.

Syn.
 -- Atrocious, Flagitious, Flagrant. Flagitious points to an act as
grossly wicked and vile; as, a flagitious proposal. Flagrant marks
the vivid impression made upon the mind by something strikingly wrong
or erroneous; as, a flagrant misrepresentation; a flagrant violation
of duty. Atrocious represents the act as springing from a violent and
savage spirit. If Lord Chatham, instead of saying "the atrocious
crime of being a young man," had used either of the other two words,
his irony would have lost all its point, in his celebrated reply to
Sir Robert Walpole, as reported by Dr. Johnson.
 -- A*tro"cious*ly, adv.
 -- A*tro"cious*ness, n.

ATROCITY
A*troc"i*ty, n.; pl. Atrocities. Etym: [F. atrocité, L. atrocitas,
fr. atrox, atrocis, cruel.]

1. Enormous wickedness; extreme heinousness or cruelty.

2. An atrocious or extremely cruel deed.
The atrocities which attend a victory. Macaulay.

ATROPHIC
A*troph"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to atrophy.

ATROPHIED
At"ro*phied, p. a.

Defn: Affected with atrophy, as a tissue or organ; arrested in
development at a very early stage; rudimentary.

ATROPHY
At"ro*phy, n. Etym: [L. atrophia, Gr. atrophie.]

Defn: A wasting away from want of nourishment; diminution in bulk or
slow emaciation of the body or of any part. Milton.

ATROPHY
At"ro*phy, v. t. [p. p. Atrophied.]

Defn: To cause to waste away or become abortive; to starve or weaken.

ATROPHY
At"ro*phy, v. i.

Defn: To waste away; to dwindle.

ATROPIA
A*tro"pi*a, n.

Defn: Same as Atropine.

ATROPINE
At"ro*pine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous, white, crystallizable alkaloid, extracted from the
Atropa belladonna, or deadly nightshade, and the Datura Stramonium,
or thorn apple. It is remarkable for its power in dilating the pupil
of the eye. Called also daturine.

ATROPISM
At"ro*pism, n. (Med.)

Defn: A condition of the system produced by long use of belladonna.

ATROPOUS
At"ro*pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Not inverted; orthotropous.

ATROUS
A"trous, a. Etym: [L. ater.]

Defn: Coal-black; very black.

ATRYPA
A*try"pa, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurian
limestones.

ATTABAL
At"ta*bal, n.

Defn: See Atabal.

ATTACCA
At*tac"ca. Etym: [It., fr. attaccare to tie, bind. See Attach.]
(Mus.)

Defn: Attack at once; -- a direction at the end of a movement to show
that the next is to follow immediately, without any pause.

ATTACH
At*tach", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attached; p. pr. & vb. n. Attaching.]
Etym: [OF. atachier, F. attacher, to tie or fasten: cf. Celt. tac,
tach, nail, E. tack a small nail, tack to fasten. Cf. Attack, and see
Tack.]

1. To bind, fasten, tie, or connect; to make fast or join; as, to
attach one thing to another by a string, by glue, or the like.
The shoulder blade is . . . attached only to the muscles. Paley.
A huge stone to which the cable was attached. Macaulay.

2. To connect; to place so as to belong; to assign by authority; to
appoint; as, an officer is attached to a certain regiment, company,
or ship.

3. To win the heart of; to connect by ties of love or self-interest;
to attract; to fasten or bind by moral influence; -- with to; as,
attached to a friend; attaching others to us by wealth or flattery.
Incapable of attaching a sensible man. Miss Austen.
God . . . by various ties attaches man to man. Cowper.

4. To connect, in a figurative sense; to ascribe or attribute; to
affix; -- with to; as, to attach great importance to a particular
circumstance.
Top this treasure a curse is attached. Bayard Taylor.

5. To take, seize, or lay hold of. [Obs.] Shak.

6. To take by legal authority: (a) To arrest by writ, and bring
before a court, as to answer for a debt, or a contempt; -- applied to
a taking of the person by a civil process; being now rarely used for
the arrest of a criminal. (b) To seize or take (goods or real estate)
by virtue of a writ or precept to hold the same to satisfy a judgment
which may be rendered in the suit. See Attachment, 4.
The earl marshal attached Gloucester for high treason. Miss Yonge.
Attached column (Arch.), a column engaged in a wall, so that only a
part of its circumference projects from it.

Syn.
 -- To affix; bind; tie; fasten; connect; conjoin; subjoin; annex;
append; win; gain over; conciliate.

ATTACH
At*tach", v. i.

1. To adhere; to be attached.
The great interest which attaches to the mere knowledge of these
facts cannot be doubted. Brougham.

2. To come into legal operation in connection with anything; to vest;
as, dower will attach. Cooley.

ATTACH
At*tach", n.

Defn: An attachment. [Obs.] Pope.

ATTACHABLE
At*tach"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attached; esp., liable to be taken by writ or
precept.

ATTACHE
At`ta*ché", n. Etym: [F., p. p. of attacher. See Attach, v. t.]

Defn: One attached to another person or thing, as a part of a suite
or staff. Specifically: One attached to an embassy.

ATTACHMENT
At*tach"ment, n. Etym: [F. attachment.]

1. The act attaching, or state of being attached; close adherence or
affection; fidelity; regard; anas, an attachment to a friend, or to a
party.

2. That by which one thing is attached to another; connection; as, to
cut the attachments of a muscle.
The human mind . . . has exhausted its forces in the endeavor to rend
the supernatural from its attachment to this history. I. Taylor.

3. Something attached; some adjunct attached to an instrument,
machine, or other object; as, a sewing machine attachment (i. e., a
device attached to a sewing machine to enable it to do special work,
as tucking, etc.).

4. (Giv. Law)
(a) A seizure or taking into custody by virtue of a legal process.
(b) The writ or percept commanding such seizure or taking.

Note: The term is applied to a seizure or taking either of persons or
property. In the serving of process in a civil suit, it is most
generally applied to the taking of property, whether at common law,
as a species of distress, to compel defendant's appearance, or under
local statutes, to satisfy the judgment the plaintiff may recover in
the action. The terms attachment and arrest are both applied to the
taking or apprehension of a defendant to compel an appearance in a
civil action. Attachments are issued at common law and in chancery,
against persons for contempt of court. In England, attachment is
employed in some cases where capias is with us, as against a witness
who fails to appear on summons. In some of the New England States a
writ of attachment is a species of mesne process upon which the
property of a defendant may be seized at the commencement of a suit
and before summons to him, and may be held to satisfy the judgment
the plaintiff may recover. In other States this writ can issue only
against absconding debtors and those who conceal themselves. See
Foreign, Garnishment, Trustee process. Bouvier. Burrill. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- Attachment, Affection. The leading idea of affection is that of
warmth and tenderness; the leading idea of attachment is that of
being bound to some object by strong and lasting ties. There is more
of sentiment (and sometimes of romance) in affection, and more of
principle in preserving attachment. We speak of the ardor of the one,
and the fidelity of the other. There is another distinction in the
use and application of these words. The term attachment is applied to
a wider range of objects than affection. A man may have a strong
attachment to his country, to his profession, to his principles, and
even to favorite places; in respect to none of these could we use the
word affection.

ATTACK
At*tack", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Attacking.]
Etym: [F. attaquer, orig. another form of attacher to attack: cf. It.
attacare to fasten, attack. See Attach, Tack a small nail.]

1. To fall upon with force; to assail, as with force and arms; to
assault. "Attack their lines." Dryden.

2. To assail with unfriendly speech or writing; to begin a
controversy with; to attempt to overthrow or bring into disrepute, by
criticism or satire; to censure; as, to attack a man, or his
opinions, in a pamphlet.

3. To set to work upon, as upon a task or problem, or some object of
labor or investigation.

4. To begin to affect; to begin to act upon, injuriously or
destructively; to begin to decompose or waste.
On the fourth of March he was attacked by fever. Macaulay.
Hydrofluoric acid . . . attacks the glass. B. Stewart.

Syn.
 -- To Attack, Assail, Assault, Invade. These words all denote a
violent onset; attack being the generic term, and the others specific
forms of attack. To attack is to commence the onset; to assail is to
make a sudden and violent attack, or to make repeated attacks; to
assault (literally, to leap upon) is to attack physically by a had-
to-hand approach or by unlawful and insulting violence; to invade is
to enter by force on what belongs to another. Thus, a person may
attack by offering violence of any kind; he may assail by means of
missile weapons; he may assault by direct personal violence; a king
may invade by marching an army into a country. Figuratively, we may
say, men attack with argument or satire; they assail with abuse or
reproaches; they may be assaulted by severe temptations; the rights
of the people may be invaded by the encroachments of the crown.

ATTACK
At*tack", v. i.

Defn: To make an onset or attack.

ATTACK
At*tack", n. Etym: [Cf. F. attaque.]

1. The act of attacking, or falling on with force or violence; an
onset; an assault; -- opposed to defense.

2. An assault upon one's feelings or reputation with unfriendly or
bitter words.

3. A setting to work upon some task, etc.

4. An access of disease; a fit of sickness.

5. The beginning of corrosive, decomposing, or destructive action, by
a chemical agent.

ATTACKABLE
At*tack"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attacked.

ATTACKER
At*tack"er, n.

Defn: One who attacks.

ATTAGAS; ATTAGEN
At"ta*gas, At"ta*gen, n. Etym: [L. attagen a kind of bird, Gr.
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of sand grouse (Syrrghaptes Pallasii) found in Asia
and rarely in southern Europe.

ATTAGHAN
At"ta*ghan, n.

Defn: See Yataghan.

ATTAIN
At*tain", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attained; p. pr. & vb. n. Attaining.]
Etym: [Of. atteinen, atteignen, , OF. ateindre, ataindre, F.
atteindre, fr. L. attingere; ad + tangere to touch, reach. See
Tangent, and cf. Attinge, Attaint.]

1. To achieve or accomplish, that is, to reach by efforts; to gain;
to compass; as, to attain rest.
Is he wise who hopes to attain the end without the means Abp.
Tillotson.

2. To gain or obtain possession of; to acquire. [Obs. with a material
object.] Chaucer.

3. To get at the knowledge of; to ascertain. [Obs.]
Not well attaining his meaning. Fuller.

4. To reach or come to, by progression or motion; to arrive at.
"Canaan he now attains." Milton.

5. To overtake. [Obs.] Bacon.

6. To reach in excellence or degree; to equal.

Syn.
 -- To Attain, Obtain, Procure. Attain always implies an effort
toward an object. Hence it is not synonymous with obtain and procure,
which do not necessarily imply such effort or motion. We procure or
obtain a thing by purchase or loan, and we obtain by inheritance, but
we do not attain it by such means.

ATTAIN
At*tain", v. i.

1. To come or arrive, by motion, growth, bodily exertion, or efforts
toward a place, object, state, etc.; to reach.
If by any means they might attain to Phenice. Acts xxvii. 12.
Nor nearer might the dogs attain. Sir W. Scott.
To see your trees attain to the dignity of timber. Cowper.
Few boroughs had as yet attained to power such as this. J. R. Green.

2. To come or arrive, by an effort of mind.
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I can not attain
unto it. Ps. cxxxix. 6.

ATTAIN
At*tain", n.

Defn: Attainment. [Obs.]

ATTAINABILITY
At*tain`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being attainable; attainbleness.

ATTAINABLE
At*tain"a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being attained or reached by efforts of the mind or
body; capable of being compassed or accomplished by efforts directed
to the object.
The highest pitch of perfection attainable in this life. Addison.

2. Obtainable. [Obs.]
General Howe would not permit the purchase of those articles [clothes
and blankets] in Philadelphia, and they were not attainable in the
country. Marshall.

ATTAINABLENESS
At*tain"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being attainable; attainability.

ATTAINDER
At*tain"der, n. Etym: [OF. ataindre, ateindre, to accuse, convict.
Attainder is often erroneously referred to F. teindre tie stain. See
Attaint, Attain.]

1. The act of attainting, or the state of being attainted; the
extinction of the civil rights and capacities of a person, consequent
upon sentence of death or outlawry; as, an act of attainder. Abbott.

Note: Formerly attainder was the inseparable consequence of a
judicial or legislative sentence for treason or felony, and involved
the forfeiture of all the real and personal property of the condemned
person, and such "corruption of blood" that he could neither receive
nor transmit by inheritance, nor could he sue or testify in any
court, or claim any legal protection or rights. In England attainders
are now abolished, and in the United States the Constitution provides
that no bill of attainder shall be passed; and no attainder of
treason (in consequence of a judicial sentence) shall work corruption
of blood or forfeiture, except during the life of the person
attainted.

2. A stain or staining; state of being in dishonor or condemnation.
[Obs.]
He lived from all attainder of suspect. Shak.
Bill of attainder, a bill brought into, or passed by, a legislative
body, condemning a person to death or outlawry, and attainder,
without judicial sentence.

ATTAINMENT
At*tain"ment, n.

1. The act of attaining; the act of arriving at or reaching; hence,
the act of obtaining by efforts.
The attainment of every desired object. Sir W. Jones.

2. That which is attained to, or obtained by exertion; acquirement;
acquisition; (pl.), mental acquirements; knowledge; as, literary and
scientific attainments.

ATTAINT
At*taint", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attainted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attainting.] Etym: [OE. atteynten to convict, fr. atteynt, OF.
ateint, p. p. of ateindre, ataindre. The meanings 3, 4, 5, and 6 were
influenced by a supposed connection with taint. See Attain,
Attainder.]

1. To attain; to get act; to hit. [Obs.]

2. (Old Law)

Defn: To find guilty; to convict; -- said esp. of a jury on trial for
giving a false verdict. [Obs.]
Upon sufficient proof attainted of some open act by men of his own
condition. Blackstone.

3. (Law)

Defn: To subject (a person) to the legal condition formerly resulting
from a sentence of death or outlawry, pronounced in respect of
treason or felony; to affect by attainder.
No person shall be attainted of high treason where corruption of
blood is incurred, but by the oath of two witnesses. Stat. 7 & 8 Wm.
III.

4. To accuse; to charge with a crime or a dishonorable act. [Archaic]

5. To affect or infect, as with physical or mental disease or with
moral contagion; to taint or corrupt.
My tender youth was never yet attaint With any passion of inflaming
love. Shak.

6. To stain; to obscure; to sully; to disgrace; to cloud with infamy.
For so exceeding shone his glistring ray, That Phattaint. Spenser.
Lest she with blame her honor should attaint. Spenser.

ATTAINT
At*taint", p. p.

Defn: Attainted; corrupted. [Obs.] Shak.

ATTAINT
At*taint", n. Etym: [OF. attainte. See Attaint, v.]

1. A touch or hit. Sir W. Scott.

2. (Far.)

Defn: A blow or wound on the leg of a horse, made by overreaching.
White.

3. (Law)

Defn: A writ which lies after judgment, to inquire whether a jury has
given a false verdict in any court of record; also, the convicting of
the jury so tried. Bouvier.

4. A stain or taint; disgrace. See Taint. Shak.

5. An infecting influence. [R.] Shak.

ATTAINTMENT
At*taint"ment, n.

Defn: Attainder; attainture; conviction.

ATTAINTURE
At*tain"ture, n.

Defn: Attainder; disgrace.

ATTAL
At"tal, n.

Defn: Same as Attle.

ATTAME
At*tame", v. t. Etym: [OF. atamer, from Latin. See Attaminate.]

1. To pierce; to attack. [Obs.]

2. To broach; to begin.
And right anon his tale he hath attamed. Chaucer.

ATTAMINATE
At*tam"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. attaminare; ad + root of tangere. See
Contaminate.]

Defn: To corrupt; to defile; to contaminate. [Obs.] Blount.

ATTAR
At"tar, n. Etym: [Per. 'atar perfume, essence, Ar. 'itr, fr. 'atara
to smell sweet. Cf. Otto.]

Defn: A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant
essential oil obtained from the petals of roses. [Also written otto
and ottar.]

ATTASK
At*task", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + task.]

Defn: To take to task; to blame. Shak.

ATTASTE
At*taste, v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + taste.]

Defn: To taste or cause to taste. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTE
At"te.

Defn: At the. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTEMPER
At*tem"per, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attempered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attempering.] Etym: [OF. atemprer, fr. L. attemperare; ad + temperare
to soften, temper. See Temper, and cf. Attemperate.]

1. To reduce, modify, or moderate, by mixture; to temper; to
regulate, as temperature.
If sweet with bitter . . . were not attempered still. Trench.

2. To soften, mollify, or moderate; to soothe; to temper; as, to
attemper rigid justice with clemency.

3. To mix in just proportion; to regulate; as, a mind well attempered
with kindness and justice.

4. To accommodate; to make suitable; to adapt.
Arts . . . attempered to the lyre. Pope.

Note: This word is now not much used, the verb temper taking its
place.

ATTEMPERAMENT
At*tem"per*a*ment, n. Etym: [OF. attemprement.]

Defn: A tempering, or mixing in due proportion.

ATTEMPERANCE
At*tem"per*ance, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. atemprance.]

Defn: Temperance; attemperament. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTEMPERATE
At*tem"per*ate, a. Etym: [L. attemperatus, p. p. of attemperare. See
Attemper.]

Defn: Tempered; proportioned; properly adapted.
Hope must be . . . attemperate to the promise. Hammond.

ATTEMPERATE
At*tem"per*ate, v. t.

Defn: To attemper. [Archaic]

ATTEMPERATION
At*tem`per*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of attempering or regulating. [Archaic] Bacon.

ATTEMPERLY
At*tem"per*ly, adv.

Defn: Temperately. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTEMPERMENT
At*tem"per*ment, n.

Defn: Attemperament.

ATTEMPT
At*tempt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attempted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attempting.] Etym: [OF. atenter, also spelt atempter, F. attenter,
fr. L. attentare to attempt; ad + tentare, temptare, to touch, try,
v. intens. of tendere to stretch. See Tempt, and cf. Attend.]

1. To make trial or experiment of; to try; to endeavor to do or
perform (some action); to assay; as, to attempt to sing; to attempt a
bold flight.
Something attempted, something done, Has earned a night's repose.
Longfellow.

2. To try to move, by entreaty, by afflictions, or by temptations; to
tempt. [Obs. or Archaic]
It made the laughter of an afternoon That Vivien should attempt the
blameless king. Thackeray.

3. To try to win, subdue, or overcome; as, one who attempts the
virtue of a woman.
Dear sir, of force I must attempt you further: Take some remembrance
of us, as a tribute. Shak.

4. To attack; to make an effort or attack upon; to try to take by
force; as, to attempt the enemy's camp.
Without attempting his adversary's life. Motley.

Syn.
 -- See Try.

ATTEMPT
At*tempt", v. i.

Defn: To make an attempt; -- with upon. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

ATTEMPT
At*tempt", n.

Defn: A essay, trial, or endeavor; an undertaking; an attack, or an
effort to gain a point; esp. an unsuccessful, as contrasted with a
successful, effort.
By his blindness maimed for high attempts. Milton.
Attempt to commit a crime (Law), such an intentional preparatory act
as will apparently result, if not extrinsically hindered, in a crime
which it was designed to effect. Wharton.

Syn.
 -- Attempt, Endeavor, Effort, Exertion, Trial. These words agree in
the idea of calling forth our powers into action. Trial is the
generic term; it denotes a putting forth of one's powers with a view
to determine what they can accomplish; as, to make trial of one's
strength. An attempt is always directed to some definite and specific
object; as, "The attempt, and not the deed, confounds us." Shak. An
endeavor is a continued attempt; as, "His high endeavor and his glad
success." Cowper. Effort is a specific putting forth of strength in
order to carry out an attempt. Exertion is the putting forth or
active exercise of any faculty or power. "It admits of all degrees of
effort and even natural action without effort." C. J. Smith. See Try.

ATTEMPTABLE
At*tempt"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attempted, tried, or attacked. Shak.

ATTEMPTER
At*tempt"er, n.

1. One who attempts; one who essays anything.

2. An assailant; also, a temper. [Obs.]

ATTEMPTIVE
At*tempt"ive, a.

Defn: Disposed to attempt; adventurous. [Obs.] Daniel.

ATTEND
At*tend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attended; p. pr. & vb. n. Attending.]
Etym: [OE. atenden, OF. atendre, F. attendre, to expect, to wait, fr.
L. attendre to stretch, (sc. animum), to apply the mind to; ad +
tendere to stretch. See Tend.]

1. To direct the attention to; to fix the mind upon; to give heed to;
to regard. [Obs.]
The diligent pilot in a dangerous tempest doth not attend the
unskillful words of the passenger. Sir P. Sidney.

2. To care for; to look after; to take charge of; to watch over.

3. To go or stay with, as a companion, nurse, or servant; to visit
professionally, as a physician; to accompany or follow in order to do
service; to escort; to wait on; to serve.
The fifth had charge sick persons to attend. Spenser.
Attends the emperor in his royal court. Shak.
With a sore heart and a gloomy brow, he prepared to attend William
thither. Macaulay.

4. To be present with; to accompany; to be united or consequent to;
as, a measure attended with ill effects.
What cares must then attend the toiling swain. Dryden.

5. To be present at; as, to attend church, school, a concert, a
business meeting.

6. To wait for; to await; to remain, abide, or be in store for.
[Obs.]
The state that attends all men after this. Locke.
Three days I promised to attend my doom. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To Attend, Mind, Regard, Heed, Notice. Attend is generic, the
rest are specific terms. To mind is to attend so that it may not be
forgotten; to regard is to look on a thing as of importance; to heed
is to ~ to a thing from a principle of caution; to notice is to think
on that which strikes the senses. Crabb. See Accompany.

ATTEND
At*tend", v. i.

1. To apply the mind, or pay attention, with a view to perceive,
understand, or comply; to pay regard; to heed; to listen; -- usually
followed by to.
Attend to the voice of my supplications. Ps. lxxxvi. 6.
Man can not at the same time attend to two objects. Jer. Taylor.

2. To accompany or be present or near at hand, in pursuance of duty;
to be ready for service; to wait or be in waiting; -- often followed
by on or upon.
He was required to attend upon the committee. Clarendon.

3. (with to) To take charge of; to look after; as, to attend to a
matter of business.

4. To wait; to stay; to delay. [Obs.]
For this perfection she must yet attend, Till to her Maker she
espoused be. Sir J. Davies.

Syn.
 -- To Attend, Listen, Hearken. We attend with a view to hear and
learn; we listen with fixed attention, in order to hear correctly, or
to consider what has been said; we hearken when we listen with a
willing mind, and in reference to obeying.

ATTENDANCE
At*tend"ance, n. Etym: [OE. attendance, OF. atendance, fr. atendre,
F. attendre. See Attend, v. t.]

1. Attention; regard; careful application. [Obs.]
Till I come, give attendance to reading. 1 Tim. iv. 13.

2. The act of attending; state of being in waiting; service;
ministry; the fact of being present; presence.
Constant attendance at church three times a day. Fielding.

3. Waiting for; expectation. [Obs.]
Languishing attendance and expectation of death. Hooker.

4. The persons attending; a retinue; attendants.
If your stray attendance by yet lodged. Milton.

ATTENDANCY
At*tend"an*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of attending or accompanying; attendance; an
attendant. [Obs.]

ATTENDANT
At*tend"ant, a. Etym: [F. attendant, p. pr. of attendre. See Attend,
v. t.]

1. Being present, or in the train; accompanying; in waiting.
From the attendant flotilla rang notes triumph. Sir W. Scott.
Cherub and Seraph . . . attendant on their Lord. Milton.

2. Accompanying, connected with, or immediately following, as
consequential; consequent; as, intemperance with all its attendant
evils.
The natural melancholy attendant upon his situation added to the
gloom of the owner of the mansion. Sir W. Scott.

3. (Law)

Defn: Depending on, or owing duty or service to; as, the widow
attendant to the heir. Cowell. Attendant keys (Mus.), the keys or
scales most nearly related to, or having most in common with, the
principal key; those, namely, of its fifth above, or dominant, its
fifth below (fourth above), or subdominant, and its relative minor or
major.

ATTENDANT
At*tend"ant, n.

1. One who attends or accompanies in any character whatever, as a
friend, companion, servant, agent, or suitor. "A train of
attendants." Hallam.

2. One who is present and takes part in the proceedings; as, an
attendant at a meeting.

3. That which accompanies; a concomitant.
[A] sense of fame, the attendant of noble spirits. Pope.

4. (Law)

Defn: One who owes duty or service to, or depends on, another.
Cowell.

ATTENDEMENT
At*tend"e*ment, n.

Defn: Intent. [Obs.] Spenser.

ATTENDER
At*tend"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, attends.

ATTENDMENT
At*tend"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. atendement.]

Defn: An attendant circumstance. [Obs.]
The uncomfortable attendments of hell. Sir T. Browne.

ATTENT
At*tent", a. Etym: [L. attentus, p. p. of attendere. See Attend, v.
t.]

Defn: Attentive; heedful. [Archaic]
Let thine ears be attent unto the prayer. 2 Chron. vi. 40.

ATTENT
At*tent", n.

Defn: Attention; heed. [Obs.] Spenser.

ATTENTATE; ATTENTAT
At*ten"tate, At*ten"tat, n. Etym: [L. attentatum, pl. attentata, fr.
attentare to attempt: cf. F. attentat criminal attempt. See Attempt.]

1. An attempt; an assault. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. (Law)
(a) A proceeding in a court of judicature, after an inhibition is
decreed.
(b) Any step wrongly innovated or attempted in a suit by an inferior
judge.

ATTENTION
At*ten"tion, n. Etym: [L. attentio: cf. F. attention.]

1. The act or state of attending or heeding; the application of the
mind to any object of sense, representation, or thought; notice;
exclusive or special consideration; earnest consideration, thought,
or regard; obedient or affectionate heed; the supposed power or
faculty of attending.
They say the tongues of dying men Enforce attention like deep
harmony. Shak.

Note: Attention is consciousness and something more. It is
consciousness voluntarily applied, under its law of limitations, to
some determinate object; it is consciousness concentrated. Sir W.
Hamilton.

2. An act of civility or courtesy; care for the comfort and pleasure
of others; as, attentions paid to a stranger. To pay attention to, To
pay one's attentions to, to be courteous or attentive to; to wait
upon as a lover; to court.

Syn.
 -- Care; heed; study; consideration; application; advertence;
respect; regard.

ATTENTIVE
At*ten"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. attentif.]

1. Heedful; intent; observant; regarding with care or attention.

Note: Attentive is applied to the senses of hearing and seeing, as,
an attentive ear or eye; to the application of the mind, as in
contemplation; or to the application of the mind, in every possible
sense, as when a person is attentive to the words, and to the manner
and matter, of a speaker at the same time.

2. Heedful of the comfort of others; courteous.

Syn.
 -- Heedful; intent; observant; mindful; regardful; circumspect;
watchful.
 -- At*ten"tive*ly, adv.
 -- At*ten"tive*ness, n.

ATTENTLY
At*tent"ly, adv.

Defn: Attentively. [Obs.] Barrow.

ATTENUANT
At*ten"u*ant, a. Etym: [L. attenuans, p. pr. of attenuare: cf. F.
atténuant. See Attenuate.]

Defn: Making thin, as fluids; diluting; rendering less dense and
viscid; diluent.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine that thins or dilutes the fluids; a diluent.

ATTENUATE
At*ten"u*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attenuated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attenuating.] Etym: [L. attenuatus, p. p. of attenuare; ad + tenuare
to make thin, tenuis thin. See Thin.]

1. To make thin or slender, as by mechanical or chemical action upon
inanimate objects, or by the effects of starvation, disease, etc.,
upon living bodies.

2. To make thin or less consistent; to render less viscid or dense;
to rarefy. Specifically: To subtilize, as the humors of the body, or
to break them into finer parts.

3. To lessen the amount, force, or value of; to make less complex; to
weaken.
To undersell our rivals . . . has led the manufacturer to . . .
attenuate his processes, in the allotment of tasks, to an extreme
point. I. Taylor.
We may reject and reject till we attenuate history into sapless
meagerness. Sir F. Palgrave.

ATTENUATE
At*ten"u*ate, v. i.

Defn: To become thin, slender, or fine; to grow less; to lessen.
The attention attenuates as its sphere contracts. Coleridge.

ATTENUATE; ATTENUATED
At*ten"u*ate, At*ten"u*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. attenuatus, p. p.]

1. Made thin or slender.

2. Made thin or less viscid; rarefied. Bacon.

ATTENUATION
At*ten`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. attenuatio: cf. F. atténuation.]

1. The act or process of making slender, or the state of being
slender; emaciation.

2. The act of attenuating; the act of making thin or less dense, or
of rarefying, as fluids or gases.

3. The process of weakening in intensity; diminution of virulence;
as, the attenuation of virus.

ATTER
At"ter, n. Etym: [AS. ætter.]

Defn: Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore. [Obs.] Holland.

ATTERCOP
At"ter*cop, n. Etym: [AS. attercoppa a spider; ætter poison + coppa
head, cup.]

1. A spider. [Obs.]

2. A peevish, ill-natured person. [North of Eng.]

ATTERRATE
At*ter*rate, v. t. Etym: [It. atterrare (cf. LL. atterrare to cast to
earth); L. ad + terra earth, land.]

Defn: To fill up with alluvial earth. [Obs.] Ray.

ATTERRATION
At`ter*ra"tion, n.

Defn: The act of filling up with earth, or of forming land with
alluvial earth. [Obs.]

ATTEST
At"test", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attested; p. pr. & vb. n. Attesting.]
Etym: [L. attestari; ad + testari to bear witness: cf. F. attester.]

1. To bear witness to; to certify; to affirm to be true or genuine;
as, to attest the truth of a writing, a copy of record.
Facts . . . attested by particular pagan authors. Addison.

2. To give proof of; to manifest; as, the ruins of Palmyra attest its
ancient magnificence.

3. To call to witness; to invoke. [Archaic]
The sacred streams which Heaven's imperial state Attests in oaths,
and fears to violate. Dryden.

ATTEST
At*test", n.

Defn: Witness; testimony; attestation. [R.]
The attest of eyes and ears. Shak.

ATTESTATION
At`tes*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. attestatio: cf. F. attestation.]

Defn: The act of attesting; testimony; witness; a solemn or official
declaration, verbal or written, in support of a fact; evidence. The
truth appears from the attestation of witnesses, or of the proper
officer. The subscription of a name to a writing as a witness, is an
attestation.

ATTESTATIVE
At*test"a*tive, a.

Defn: Of the nature of attestation.

ATTESTER; ATTESTOR
At*test"er, At*test"or, n.

Defn: One who attests.

ATTESTIVE
At*test"ive, a.

Defn: Attesting; furnishing evidence.

ATTIC
At"tic, a. Etym: [L. Atticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, its
principal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic of
the Athenians; classical; refined. Attic base (Arch.), a peculiar
form of molded base for a column or pilaster, described by Vitruvius,
applied under the Roman Empire to the Ionic and Corinthian and "Roman
Doric" orders, and imitated by the architects of the Renaissance.
 -- Attic faith, inviolable faith.
 -- Attic purity, special purity of language.
 -- Attic salt, Attic wit, a poignant, delicate wit, peculiar to the
Athenians.
 -- Attic story. See Attic, n.
 -- Attic style, a style pure and elegant.

ATTIC
At"tic, n. Etym: [In sense (a) from F. attique, orig. meaning Attic.
See Attic, a.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) A low story above the main order or orders of a facade, in the
classical styles; -- a term introduced in the 17th century. Hence:
(b) A room or rooms behind that part of the exterior; all the rooms
immediately below the roof.

2. An Athenian; an Athenian author.

ATTICAL
At"tic*al, a.

Defn: Attic. [Obs.] Hammond.

ATTICISM
At"ti*cism, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. A favoring of, or attachment to, the Athenians.

2. The style and idiom of the Greek language, used by the Athenians;
a concise and elegant expression.

ATTICIZE
At"ti*cize, v. t. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To conform or make conformable to the language, customs, etc.,
of Attica.

ATTICIZE
At"ti*cize, v. i.

1. To side with the Athenians.

2. To use the Attic idiom or style; to conform to the customs or
modes of thought of the Athenians.

ATTIGUOUS
At*tig"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. attiguus, fr. attingere to touch. See
Attain.]

Defn: Touching; bordering; contiguous. [Obs.] -- At*tig"u*ous*ness,
n. [Obs.]

ATTINGE
At*tinge", v. t. Etym: [L. attingere to touch. See Attain.]

Defn: To touch lightly. [Obs.] Coles.

ATTIRE
At*tire", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attired; p. pr. & vb. n. Attiring.]
Etym: [OE. atiren to array, dispose, arrange, OF. atirier; à (L. ad)
+ F. tire rank, order, row; of Ger. origin: cf. As. tier row, OHG.
ziari, G. zier, ornament, zieren to adorn. Cf. Tire a headdress.]

Defn: To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant or
splendid garments.
Finely attired in a robe of white. Shak.
With the linen miter shall he be attired. Lev. xvi. 4.

ATTIRE
At*tire", n.

1. Dress; clothes; headdress; anything which dresses or adorns; esp.,
ornamental clothing.
Earth in her rich attire. Milton.
I 'll put myself in poor and mean attire. Shak.
Can a maid forget her ornament, or a bride her attire Jer. ii. 32.

2. The antlers, or antlers and scalp, of a stag or buck.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The internal parts of a flower, included within the calyx and
the corolla. [Obs.] Johnson.

ATTIRED
At*tired", p. p. (Her.)

Defn: Provided with antlers, as a stag.

ATTIREMENT
At*tire"ment, n.

Defn: Attire; adornment.

ATTIRER
At*tir"er, n.

Defn: One who attires.

ATTITUDE
At"ti*tude, n. Etym: [It. attitudine, LL. aptitudo, fr. L. aptus
suited, fitted: cf. F. attitude. Cf. Aptitude.]

1. (Paint. & Sculp.)

Defn: The posture, action, or disposition of a figure or a statue.

2. The posture or position of a person or an animal, or the manner in
which the parts of his body are disposed; position assumed or studied
to serve a purpose; as, a threatening attitude; an attitude of
entreaty.

3. Fig.: Position as indicating action, feeling, or mood; as, in
times of trouble let a nation preserve a firm attitude; one's mental
attitude in respect to religion.
The attitude of the country was rapidly changing. J. R. Green.
To strike an attitude, to take an attitude for mere effect.

Syn.
 -- Attitude, Posture. Both of these words describe the visible
disposition of the limbs. Posture relates to their position merely;
attitude refers to their fitness for some specific object. The object
of an attitude is to set forth exhibit some internal feeling; as,
attitude of wonder, of admiration, of grief, etc. It is, therefore,
essentially and designedly expressive. Its object is the same with
that of gesture; viz., to hold forth and represent. Posture has no
such design. If we speak of posture in prayer, or the posture of
devotion, it is only the natural disposition of the limbs, without
any intention to show forth or exhibit.
'T is business of a painter in his choice of attitudes (posituræ) to
foresee the effect and harmony of the lights and shadows. Dryden.
Never to keep the body in the same posture half an hour at a time.
Bacon.

ATTITUDINAL
At`ti*tu"di*nal, a.

Defn: Relating to attitude.

ATTITUDINARIAN
At`ti*tu`di*na"ri*an, n.

Defn: One who attitudinizes; a posture maker.

ATTITUDINARIANISM
At`ti*tu`di*na"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: A practicing of attitudes; posture making.

ATTITUDINIZE
At`ti*tu"di*nize, v. i.

Defn: To assume affected attitudes; to strike an attitude; to pose.
Maria, who is the most picturesque figure, was put to attitudinize at
the harp. Hannah More.

ATTITUDINIZER
At`ti*tu"di*ni`zer, n

Defn: One who practices attitudes.

ATTLE
At"tle, n. Etym: [Cf. Addle mire.] (Mining)

Defn: Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing little
or no ore. Weale.

ATTOLLENT
At*tol"lent, a. Etym: [L. attollens, p. pr. of attollere; ad +
tollere to lift.]

Defn: Lifting up; raising; as, an attollent muscle. Derham.

ATTONCE
At*tonce", adv. Etym: [At + once.]

Defn: At once; together. [Obs.] Spenser.

ATTONE
At*tone", adv.

Defn: See At one. [Obs.]

ATTORN
At*torn", v. i. Etym: [OF. atorner, aturner, atourner, to direct,
prepare, dispose, attorn (cf. OE. atornen to return, adorn); à (L.
ad) + torner to turn; cf. LL. attornare to commit business to
another, to attorn; ad + tornare to turn, L. tornare to turn in a
lathe, to round off. See Turn, v. t.]

1. (Feudal Law)

Defn: To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord to
another. This is the act of feudatories, vassals, or tenants, upon
the alienation of the estate. Blackstone.

2. (Modern Law)

Defn: To agree to become tenant to one to whom reversion has been
granted.

ATTORNEY
At*tor"ney, n.; pl. Attorneys. Etym: [OE. aturneye, OF. atorné, p. p.
of atorner: cf. LL. atturnatus, attornatus, fr. attornare. See
Attorn.]

1. A substitute; a proxy; an agent. [Obs.]
And will have no attorney but myself. Shak.

2. (Law)
(a) One who is legally appointed by another to transact any business
for him; an attorney in fact.
(b) A legal agent qualified to act for suitors and defendants in
legal proceedings; an attorney at law.

Note: An attorney is either public or private. A private attorney, or
an attorney in fact, is a person appointed by another, by a letter or
power of attorney, to transact any business for him out of court; but
in a more extended sense, this class includes any agent employed in
any business, or to do any act in pais, for another. A public
attorney, or attorney at law, is a practitioner in a court of law,
legally qualified to prosecute and defend actions in such court, on
the retainer of clients. Bouvier.
 -- The attorney at law answers to the procurator of the civilians,
to the solicitor in chancery, and to the proctor in the
ecclesiastical and admiralty courts, and all of these are
comprehended under the more general term lawyer. In Great Britain and
in some states of the United States, attorneys are distinguished from
counselors in that the business of the former is to carry on the
practical and formal parts of the suit. In many states of the United
States however, no such distinction exists. In England, since 1873,
attorneys at law are by statute called solicitors. A power, letter,
or warrant, of attorney, a written authority from one person
empowering another to transact business for him.

ATTORNEY
At*tor"ney, v. t.

Defn: To perform by proxy; to employ as a proxy. [Obs.] Shak.

ATTORNEY-GENERAL
At*tor"ney-gen"er*al, n.; (pl. Attorney-generals or Attorneys-
general). (Law)

Defn: The chief law officer of the state, empowered to act in all
litigation in which the law-executing power is a party, and to advise
this supreme executive whenever required. Wharton.

ATTORNEYISM
At*tor"ney*ism, n.

Defn: The practice or peculiar cleverness of attorneys.

ATTORNEYSHIP
At*tor"ney*ship, n.

Defn: The office or profession of an attorney; agency for another.
Shak.

ATTORNMENT
At*torn"ment, n. Etym: [OF. attornement, LL. attornamentum. See
Attorn.] (Law)

Defn: The act of a feudatory, vassal, or tenant, by which he
consents, upon the alienation of an estate, to receive a new lord or
superior, and transfers to him his homage and service; the agreement
of a tenant to acknowledge the purchaser of the estate as his
landlord. Burrill. Blackstone.

ATTRACT
At*tract", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attracted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attracting.] Etym: [L. attractus, p. p. of attrahere; ad + trahere to
draw. See Trace, v. t.]

1. To draw to, or cause to tend to; esp. to cause to approach,
adhere, or combine; or to cause to resist divulsion, separation, or
decomposition.
All bodies and all parts of bodies mutually attract themselves and
one another. Derham.

2. To draw by influence of a moral or emotional kind; to engage or
fix, as the mind, attention, etc.; to invite or allure; as, to
attract admirers.
Attracted by thy beauty still to gaze. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To draw; allure; invite; entice; influence.

ATTRACT
At*tract", n.

Defn: Attraction. [Obs.] Hudibras.

ATTRACTABILITY
At*tract`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or fact of being attractable. Sir W. Jones.

ATTRACTABLE
At*tract"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attracted; subject to attraction.
 -- At*tract"a*ble*ness, n.

ATTRACTER
At*tract"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, attracts.

ATTRACTILE
At*tract"ile, a.

Defn: Having power to attract.

ATTRACTING
At*tract"ing, a.

Defn: That attracts.
 -- At*tract"ing*ly, adv.

ATTRACTION
At*trac"tion, n. Etym: [L. attractio: cf. F. attraction.]

1. (Physics)

Defn: An invisible power in a body by which it draws anything to
itself; the power in nature acting mutually between bodies or
ultimate particles, tending to draw them together, or to produce
their cohesion or combination, and conversely resisting separation.

Note: Attraction is exerted at both sensible and insensible
distances, and is variously denominated according to its qualities or
phenomena. Under attraction at sensible distances, there are, --(1.)
Attraction of gravitation, which acts at all distances throughout the
universe, with a force proportional directly to the product of the
masses of the bodies and inversely to the square of their distances
apart. (2.) Magnetic, diamagnetic, and electrical attraction, each of
which is limited in its sensible range and is polar in its action, a
property dependent on the quality or condition of matter, and not on
its quantity. Under attraction at insensible distances, there are, --
(1.) Adhesive attraction, attraction between surfaces of sensible
extent, or by the medium of an intervening substance. (2.) Cohesive
attraction, attraction between ultimate particles, whether like or
unlike, and causing simply an aggregation or a union of those
particles, as in the absorption of gases by charcoal, or of oxygen by
spongy platinum, or the process of solidification or crystallization.
The power in adhesive attraction is strictly the same as that of
cohesion. (3.) Capillary attraction, attraction causing a liquid to
rise, in capillary tubes or interstices, above its level outside, as
in very small glass tubes, or a sponge, or any porous substance, when
one end is inserted in the liquid. It is a special case of cohesive
attraction. (4.) Chemical attraction, or affinity, that peculiar
force which causes elementary atoms, or groups of atoms, to unite to
form molecules.

2. The act or property of attracting; the effect of the power or
operation of attraction. Newton.

3. The power or act of alluring, drawing to, inviting, or engaging;
an attractive quality; as, the attraction of beauty or eloquence.

4. That which attracts; an attractive object or feature.

Syn.
 -- Allurement; enticement; charm.

ATTRACTION SPHERE
At*trac"tion sphere.

1. (Zoöl.)
 (a) The central mass of the aster in mitotic cell division;
centrosphere.
 (b) Less often, the mass of archoplasm left by the aster in the
resting cell.

2.  (Bot.) A small body situated on or near the nucleus in the cells
of some of the lower plants, consisting of two centrospheres
containing centrosomes. It exercises an important function in
mitosis.

ATTRACTIVE
At*tract"ive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. attractif.]

1. Having the power or quality of attracting or drawing; as, the
attractive force of bodies. Sir I. Newton.

2. Attracting or drawing by moral influence or pleasurable emotion;
alluring; inviting; pleasing. "Attractive graces." Milton.
"Attractive eyes." Thackeray.
Flowers of a livid yellow, or fleshy color, are most attractive to
flies. Lubbock.
-- At*tract"ive*ly, adv.
 -- At*tract"ive*ness, n.

ATTRACTIVE
At*tract"ive, n.

Defn: That which attracts or draws; an attraction; an allurement.
Speaks nothing but attractives and invitation. South.

ATTRACTIVITY
At`trac*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or degree of attractive power.

ATTRACTOR
At*tract"or, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, attracts. Sir T. Browne

ATTRAHENT
At"tra*hent, a. Etym: [L. attrahens, p. pr. of attrahere. See
Attract, v. t.]

Defn: Attracting; drawing; attractive.

ATTRAHENT
At"tra*hent, n.

1. That which attracts, as a magnet.
The motion of the steel to its attrahent. Glanvill.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A substance which, by irritating the surface, excites action in
the part to which it is applied, as a blister, an epispastic, a
sinapism.

ATTRAP
At*trap", v. t. Etym: [F. attraper to catch; à (L. ad) + trappe trap.
See Trap (for taking game).]

Defn: To entrap; to insnare. [Obs.] Grafton.

ATTRAP
At*trap", v. t. Etym: [Pref. ad + trap to adorn.]

Defn: To adorn with trapping; to array. [Obs.]
Shall your horse be attrapped . . . more richly Holland.

ATTRECTATION
At`trec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. attrectatio; ad + tractare to handle.]

Defn: Frequent handling or touching. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

ATTRIBUTABLE
At*trib"u*ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being attributed; ascribable; imputable.
Errors . . . attributable to carelessness. J. D. Hooker.

ATTRIBUTE
At*trib"ute, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attributed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Attributing.] Etym: [L. attributus, p. p. of attribuere; ad +
tribuere to bestow. See Tribute.]

Defn: To ascribe; to consider (something) as due or appropriate (to);
to refer, as an effect to a cause; to impute; to assign; to consider
as belonging (to).
We attribute nothing to God that hath any repugnancy or contradiction
in it. Abp. Tillotson.
The merit of service is seldom attributed to the true and exact
performer. Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Ascribe.

ATTRIBUTE
At"tri*bute, n. Etym: [L. attributum.]

1. That which is attributed; a quality which is considered as
belonging to, or inherent in, a person or thing; an essential or
necessary property or characteristic.
But mercy is above this sceptered away; . . . It is an attribute to
God himself. Shak.

2. Reputation. [Poetic] Shak.

3. (Paint. & Sculp.)

Defn: A conventional symbol of office, character, or identity, added
to any particular figure; as, a club is the attribute of Hercules.

4. (Gram.)

Defn: Quality, etc., denoted by an attributive; an attributive
adjunct or adjective.

ATTRIBUTION
At`tri*bu"tion, n. Etym: [L. attributio: cf. F. attribution.]

1. The act of attributing or ascribing, as a quality, character, or
function, to a thing or person, an effect to a cause.

2. That which is ascribed or attributed.

ATTRIBUTIVE
At*trib"u*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. attributif.]

Defn: Attributing; pertaining to, expressing, or assigning an
attribute; of the nature of an attribute.

ATTRIBUTIVE
At*trib"u*tive, n., (Gram.)

Defn: A word that denotes an attribute; esp. a modifying word joined
to a noun; an adjective or adjective phrase.

ATTRIBUTIVELY
At*trib"u*tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In an attributive manner.

ATTRITE
At*trite", a. Etym: [L. attritus, p. p. of atterere; ad + terere to
rub. See Trite.]

1. Rubbed; worn by friction. Milton.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: Repentant from fear of punishment; having attrition of grief
for sin; -- opposed to contrite.

ATTRITION
At*tri"tion, n. Etym: [L. attritio: cf. F. attrition.]

1. The act of rubbing together; friction; the act of wearing by
friction, or by rubbing substances together; abrasion.
Effected by attrition of the inward stomach. Arbuthnot.

2. The state of being worn. Johnson.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: Grief for sin arising only from fear of punishment or feelings
of shame. See Contrition. Wallis.

ATTRITUS
At*tri"tus, n. [L. attritus, p. p. of atterere; ad + terere to rub.]

Defn: Matter pulverized by attrition.

ATTRY
At"try, a. Etym: [See Atter.]

Defn: Poisonous; malignant; malicious. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATTUNE
At*tune", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attuned (; p. pr. & vb. n. Attuning.]
Etym: [Pref. ad- + tune.]

1. To tune or put in tune; to make melodious; to adjust, as one sound
or musical instrument to another; as, to attune the voice to a harp.

2. To arrange fitly; to make accordant.
Wake to energy each social aim, Attuned spontaneous to the will of
Jove. Beattie.

ATWAIN
A*twain", adv. Etym: [OE. atwaine, atwinne; pref. a- + twain.]

Defn: In twain; asunder. [Obs. or Poetic] "Cuts atwain the knots."
Tennyson.

ATWEEN
A*tween", adv. or prep. Etym: [See Atwain, and cf. Between.]

Defn: Between. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson.

ATWIRL
A*twirl", a. & adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + twist.]

Defn: Twisted; distorted; awry. [R.] Halliwell.

ATWITE
A*twite", v. t. Etym: [OE. attwyten, AS. ætwitan. See Twit.]

Defn: To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid. [Obs.]

ATWIXT
A*twixt", adv.

Defn: Betwixt. [Obs.] Spenser.

ATWO
A*two", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + two.]

Defn: In two; in twain; asunder. [Obs.] Chaucer.

ATYPIC; ATYPICAL
A*typ"ic, A*typ"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. a- not + typic, typical.]

Defn: That has no type; devoid of typical character; irregular;
unlike the type.

AUBADE
Au`bade", n. Etym: [F., fr. aube the dawn, fr. L. albus white.]

Defn: An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from an
evening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive of
morning. Grove.
The crowing cock . . . Sang his aubade with lusty voice and clear.
Longfellow.

AUBAINE
Au`baine", n. Etym: [F., fr. aubain an alien, fr. L. alibi
elsewhere.]

Defn: Succession to the goods of a stranger not naturalized. Littré.
Droit d'aubaine (, the right, formerly possessed by the king of
France, to all the personal property of which an alien died
possessed. It was abolished in 1819. Bouvier.

AUBE
Aube, n. Etym: [See Ale.]

Defn: An alb. [Obs.] Fuller.

AUBERGE
Au`berge", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An inn. Beau. & Fl.

AUBIN
Au"bin, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; --
commonly called a Canterbury gallop.

AUBURN
Au"burn, a. Etym: [OE. auburne blonde, OF. alborne, auborne, fr. LL.
alburnus whitish, fr. L. albus white. Cf. Alburn.]

1. Flaxen-colored. [Obs.] Florio.

2. Reddish brown.
His auburn locks on either shoulder flowed. Dryden.

AUCHENIUM
Au*che"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The part of the neck nearest the back.

AUCTARY
Auc"ta*ry, n. Etym: [L. auctarium.]

Defn: That which is superadded; augmentation. [Obs.] Baxter.

AUCTION
Auc"tion, n. Etym: [L. auctio an increasing, a public sale, where the
price was called out, and the article to be sold was adjudged to the
last increaser of the price, or the highest bidder, fr. L. augere,
auctum, to increase. See Augment.]

1. A public sale of property to the highest bidder, esp. by a person
licensed and authorized for the purpose; a vendue.

2. The things sold by auction or put up to auction.
Ask you why Phryne the whole auction buys Pope.

Note: In the United States, the more prevalent expression has been
"sales at auction," that is, by an increase of bids (Lat. auctione).
This latter form is preferable. Dutch auction, the public offer of
property at a price beyond its value, then gradually lowering the
price, till some one accepts it as purchaser. P. Cyc.

AUCTION
Auc"tion, v. t.

Defn: To sell by auction.

AUCTIONARY
Auc"tion*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. auctionarius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an auction or an auctioneer. [R.]
With auctionary hammer in thy hand. Dryden.

AUCTION BRIDGE
Auc"tion bridge.

Defn: A variety of the game of bridge in which the players, beginning
with the dealer, bid for the privilege of naming the trump and
playing with the dummy for that deal, there being heavy penalties for
a player's failure to make good his bid. The score value of each
trick more than six taken by the successful bidder is as follows:
when the trump is spades, 2; clubs, 6; diamonds, 7; hearts, 8; royal
spades (lilies), 9; and when the deal is played with no trump, 10.

AUCTIONEER
Auc`tion*eer", n.

Defn: A person who sells by auction; a person whose business it is to
dispose of goods or lands by public sale to the highest or best
bidder.

AUCTIONEER
Auc`tion*eer", v. t.

Defn: To sell by auction; to auction.
Estates . . . advertised and auctioneered away. Cowper.

AUCTION PITCH
Auction pitch.

Defn: A game of cards in which the players bid for the privilege of
determining or "pitching" the trump suit.  R. F. Foster.

AUCUPATION
Au`cu*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. aucupatio, fr. auceps, contr. for
aviceps; avis bird + capere to take.]

Defn: Birdcatching; fowling. [Obs.] Blount.

AUDACIOUS
Au*da"cious, a. Etym: [F. audacieux, as if fr. LL. audaciosus (not
found), fr. L. audacia audacity, fr. audax, -acis, bold, fr. audere
to dare.]

1. Daring; spirited; adventurous.
As in a cloudy chair, ascending rides Audacious. Milton.

2. Contemning the restraints of law, religion, or decorum; bold in
wickedness; presumptuous; impudent; insolent. " Audacious traitor."
Shak. " Such audacious neighborhood." Milton.

3. Committed with, or proceedings from, daring effrontery or contempt
of law, morality, or decorum. "Audacious cruelty." "Audacious prate."
Shak.

AUDACIOUSLY
Au*da"cious*ly, adv.

Defn: In an audacious manner; with excess of boldness; impudently.

AUDACIOUSNESS
Au*da"cious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being audacious; impudence; audacity.

AUDACITY
Au*dac"i*ty, n.

1. Daring spirit, resolution, or confidence; venturesomeness.
The freedom and audacity necessary in the commerce of men. Tatler.

2. Reckless daring; presumptuous impudence; -- implying a contempt of
law or moral restraints.
With the most arrogant audacity. Joye.

AUDIBILITY
Au`di*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being audible; power of being heard; audible
capacity.

AUDIBLE
Au"di*ble, a. Etym: [LL. audibilis, fr. L. audire, auditum, to hear:
cf. Gr. auris, and E. ear.]

Defn: Capable of being heard; loud enough to be heard; actually
heard; as, an audible voice or whisper.

AUDIBLE
Au"di*ble, n.

Defn: That which may be heard. [Obs.]
Visibles are swiftlier carried to the sense than audibles. Bacon.

AUDIBLENESS
Au"di*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being audible.

AUDIBLY
Au"di*bly, adv.

Defn: So as to be heard.

AUDIENCE
Au"di*ence, n. Etym: [F. audience, L. audientia, fr. audire to hear.
See Audible, a.]

1. The act of hearing; attention to sounds.
Thou, therefore, give due audience, and attend. Milton.

2. Admittance to a hearing; a formal interview, esp. with a sovereign
or the head of a government, for conference or the transaction of
business.
According to the fair play of the world, Let me have audience: I am
sent to speak. Shak.

3. An auditory; an assembly of hearers. Also applied by authors to
their readers.
Fit audience find, though few. Milton.
He drew his audience upward to the sky. Dryden.
Court of audience, or Audience court (Eng.), a court long since
disused, belonging to the Archbishop of Canterbury; also, one
belonging to the Archbishop of York. Mozley & W.
 -- In general (or open) audience, publicly.
 -- To give audience, to listen; to admit to an interview.

AUDIENT
Au"di*ent, a. Etym: [L. audiens, p. pr. of audire. See Audible, a.]

Defn: Listening; paying attention; as, audient souls. Mrs. Browning.

AUDIENT
Au"di*ent, n.

Defn: A hearer; especially a catechumen in the early church. [Obs.]
Shelton.

AUDILE
Au"dile, n. [L. audire to hear.] (Psychol.)

Defn: One whose thoughts take the form of mental sounds or of
internal discourse rather than of visual or motor images.

AUDIOMETER
Au`di*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. audire to hear + -meter.] (Acous.)

Defn: An instrument by which the power of hearing can be gauged and
recorded on a scale.

AUDIPHONE
Au"di*phone, n. Etym: [L. audire to hear + Gr.

Defn: An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to
the auditory nerve and enables the deaf to hear more or less
distinctly; a dentiphone.

AUDIT
Au"dit, n. Etym: [L. auditus a hearing, fr. audire. See Audible, a.]

1. An audience; a hearing. [Obs.]
He appeals to a high audit. Milton.

2. An examination in general; a judicial examination.

Note: Specifically: An examination of an account or of accounts, with
the hearing of the parties concerned, by proper officers, or persons
appointed for that purpose, who compare the charges with the
vouchers, examine witnesses, and state the result.

3. The result of such an examination, or an account as adjusted by
auditors; final account.
Yet I can make my audit up. Shak.

4. A general receptacle or receiver. [Obs.]
It [a little brook] paid to its common audit no more than the
revenues of a little cloud. Jer. Taylor.
Audit ale, a kind of ale, brewed at the English universities, orig.
for the day of audit.
 -- Audit house, Audit room, an appendage to a cathedral, for the
transaction of its business.

AUDIT
Au"dit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Audited; p. pr. & vb. n. Auditing.]

Defn: To examine and adjust, as an account or accounts; as, to audit
the accounts of a treasure, or of parties who have a suit depending
in court.

AUDIT
Au"dit, v. i.

Defn: To settle or adjust an account.
Let Hocus audit; he knows how the money was disbursed. Arbuthnot.

AUDITA QUERELA
Au*di"ta que*re"la. Etym: [L., the complaint having been heard.]
(Law)

Defn: A writ which lies for a party against whom judgment is
recovered, but to whom good matter of discharge has subsequently
accrued which could not have been availed of to prevent such
judgment. Wharton.

AUDITION
Au*di"tion, n. Etym: [L. auditio.]

Defn: The act of hearing or listening; hearing.
Audition may be active or passive; hence the difference between
listening and simple hearing. Dunglison.

AUDITIVE
Au"di*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. auditif.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to hearing; auditory. [R.] Cotgrave.

AUDITOR
Au"di*tor, n. Etym: [L. auditor, fr. audire. See Audible, a.]

1. A hearer or listener. Macaulay.

2. A person appointed and authorized to audit or examine an account
or accounts, compare the charges with the vouchers, examine the
parties and witnesses, allow or reject charges, and state the
balance.

3. One who hears judicially, as in an audience court.

Note: In the United States government, and in the State governments,
there are auditors of the treasury and of the public accounts. The
name is also applied to persons employed to check the accounts of
courts, corporations, companies, societies, and partnerships.

AUDITORIAL
Au`di*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Auditory. [R.]

AUDITORIUM
Au`di*to"ri*um, n. Etym: [L. See Auditory, n.]

Defn: The part of a church, theater, or other public building,
assigned to the audience.

Note: In ancient churches the auditorium was the nave, where hearers
stood to be instructed; in monasteries it was an apartment for the
reception of strangers.

AUDITORSHIP
Au"di*tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office or function of auditor.

AUDITORY
Au"di*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. auditorius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to hearing, or to the sense or organs of
hearing; as, the auditory nerve. See Ear. Auditory canal (Anat.), the
tube from the auditory meatus or opening of the ear to the tympanic
membrane.

AUDITORY
Au"di*to*ry, n. Etym: [L. auditorium.]

1. An assembly of hearers; an audience.

2. An auditorium. Udall.

AUDITRESS
Au"di*tress, n.

Defn: A female hearer. Milton.

AUDITUAL
Au*dit"u*al, a.

Defn: Auditory. [R.] Coleridge.

AUF
Auf, n. Etym: [OE. auph, aulf, fr. Icel. alfr elf. See Elf.] [Also
spelt oaf, ouphe.]

Defn: A changeling or elf child, -- that is, one left by fairies; a
deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an oaf. [Obs.] Drayton.

AU FAIT
Au` fait". Etym: [F. Lit., to the deed, act, or point. Fait is fr. L.
factum. See Fact.]

Defn: Expert; skillful; well instructed.

AUFKLARUNG
Auf"klä*rung, n. [G., enlightenment.]

Defn: A philosophic movement of the 18th century characterized by a
lively questioning of authority, keen interest in matters of politics
and general culture, and an emphasis on empirical method in science.
It received its impetus from the unsystematic but vigorous skepticism
of Pierre Bayle, the physical doctrines of Newton, and the
epistemological theories of Locke, in the preceding century. Its
chief center was in France, where it gave rise to the skepticism of
Voltaire , the naturalism of Rousseau, the sensationalism of
Condillac, and the publication of the "Encyclopedia" by D'Alembert
and Diderot. In Germany, Lessing, Mendelssohn, and Herder were
representative thinkers, while the political doctrines of the leaders
of the American Revolution and the speculations of Benjamin Franklin
and Thomas Paine represented the movement in America.

AU FOND
Au` fond". [F., lit., at the bottom.]

Defn: At bottom; fundamentally; essentially.

AUGEAN
Au*ge"an, a.

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Augeus, king of Elis, whose stable
contained 3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years. Hercules
cleansed it in a single day.

2. Hence: Exceedingly filthy or corrupt. Augean stable (Fig.), an
accumulation of corruption or filth almost beyond the power of man to
remedy.

AUGER
Au"ger, n. Etym: [OE. augoure, nauger, AS. nafegar, fr. nafu, nafa,
nave of a wheel + gar spear, and therefore meaning properly and
originally a nave-bore. See Nave (of a wheel) and 2d Gore, n.]

1. A carpenter's tool for boring holes larger than those bored by a
gimlet. It has a handle placed crosswise by which it is turned with
both hands. A pod auger is one with a straight channel or groove,
like the half of a bean pod. A screw auger has a twisted blade, by
the spiral groove of which the chips are discharge.

2. An instrument for boring or perforating soils or rocks, for
determining the quality of soils, or the nature of the rocks or
strata upon which they lie, and for obtaining water. Auger bit, a bit
with a cutting edge or blade like that of an anger.

AUGET
Au*get", n. Etym: [F., dim. of auge trough, fr. L. alveus hollow, fr.
alvus belly.] (Mining)

Defn: A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery,
or place where the slow match is applied. Knight.

AUGHT; AUCHT
Aught, Aucht, n. Etym: [AS. , fr. agan to own, p. p. ahte.]

Defn: Property; possession. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

AUGHT
Aught, n. Etym: [OE. aught, ought, awiht, AS. awiht, a ever + wiht.
*136. See Aye ever, and Whit, Wight.]

Defn: Anything; any part. [Also written ought.]
There failed not aught of any good thing which the Lord has spoken.
Josh. xxi. 45
But go, my son, and see if aught be wanting. Addison.

AUGHT
Aught, adv.

Defn: At all; in any degree. Chaucer.

AUGITE
Au"gite, n. Etym: [L. augites, Gr. augite.]

Defn: A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color,
occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead of
the general term pyroxene.

AUGITIC
Au*git"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, augite; containing augite as a
principal constituent; as, augitic rocks.

AUGMENT
Aug*ment", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Augmented; p. pr. & vb. n.
Augmenting.] Etym: [L. augmentare, fr. augmentum an increase, fr.
augere to increase; perh. akin to Gr. wax, v., and eke, v.: cf. F.
augmenter.]

1. To enlarge or increase in size, amount, or degree; to swell; to
make bigger; as, to augment an army by reëforcements; rain augments a
stream; impatience augments an evil.
But their spite still serves His glory to augment. Milton.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: To add an augment to.

AUGMENT
Aug*ment", v. i.

Defn: To increase; to grow larger, stronger, or more intense; as, a
stream augments by rain.

AUGMENT
Aug"ment, n. Etym: [L. augmentum: cf. F. augment.]

1. Enlargement by addition; increase.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A vowel prefixed, or a lengthening of the initial vowel, to
mark past time, as in Greek and Sanskrit verbs.

Note: In Greek, the syllabic augment is a prefixed temporal augment
is an increase of the quantity (time) of an initial vowel, as by
changing

AUGMENTABLE
Aug*ment"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of augmentation. Walsh.

AUGMENTATION
Aug`men*ta"tion, n. Etym: [LL. augmentatio: cf. F. augmentation.]

1. The act or process of augmenting, or making larger, by addition,
expansion, or dilation; increase.

2. The state of being augmented; enlargement.

3. The thing added by way of enlargement.

4. (Her.)

Defn: A additional charge to a coat of arms, given as a mark of
honor. Cussans.

5. (Med.)

Defn: The stage of a disease in which the symptoms go on increasing.
Dunglison.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: In counterpoint and fugue, a repetition of the subject in tones
of twice the original length. Augmentation court (Eng. Hist.), a
court erected by Stat. 27 Hen. VIII., to augment to revenues of the
crown by the suppression of monasteries. It was long ago dissolved.
Encyc. Brit.

Syn.
 -- Increase; enlargement; growth; extension; accession; addition.

AUGMENTATIVE
Aug*ment"a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. augmentatif.]

Defn: Having the quality or power of augmenting; expressing
augmentation.
 -- Aug*ment"a*tive*ly, adv.

AUGMENTATIVE
Aug*ment"a*tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: A word which expresses with augmented force the idea or the
properties of the term from which it is derived; as, dullard, one
very dull. Opposed to diminutive. Gibbs.

AUGMENTER
Aug*ment"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, augments or increases anything.

AU GRATIN
Au` gra`tin". [F.] (Cookery)

Defn: With a crust made by browning in the oven; as, spaghetti may be
served au gratin.

AUGRIM
Au"grim, n.

Defn: See Algorism. [Obs.] Chaucer. Augrim stones, pebbles formerly
used in numeration.
 -- Noumbres of Augrim, Arabic numerals. Chaucer.

AUGUR
Au"gur, n. Etym: [L. Of uncertain origin: the first part of the word
is perh. fr. L. avis bird, and the last syllable, gur, equiv. to the
Skr. gar to call, akin to L. garrulus garrulous.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An official diviner who foretold events by the singing,
chattering, flight, and feeding of birds, or by signs or omens
derived from celestial phenomena, certain appearances of quadrupeds,
or unusual occurrences.

2. One who foretells events by omens; a soothsayer; a diviner; a
prophet.
Augur of ill, whose tongue was never found Without a priestly curse
or boding sound. Dryden.

AUGUR
Au"gur, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Augured (; p. pr. & vb. n. Auguring.]

1. To conjecture from signs or omens; to prognosticate; to foreshow.
My auguring mind assures the same success. Dryden.

2. To anticipate, to foretell, or to indicate a favorable or an
unfavorable issue; as, to augur well or ill.

AUGUR
Au"gur, v. t.

Defn: To predict or foretell, as from signs or omens; to betoken; to
presage; to infer.
It seems to augur genius. Sir W. Scott.
I augur everything from the approbation the proposal has met with. J.
F. W. Herschel.

Syn.
 -- To predict; forebode; betoken; portend; presage; prognosticate;
prophesy; forewarn.

AUGURAL
Au"gu*ral, a. Etym: [L. auguralis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous;
significant; as, an augural staff; augural books. "Portents augural."
Cowper.

AUGURATE
Au"gu*rate, v. t. & i. Etym: [L. auguratus, p. p. of augurari to
augur.]

Defn: To make or take auguries; to augur; to predict. [Obs.] C.
Middleton.

AUGURATE
Au"gu*rate, n.

Defn: The office of an augur. Merivale.

AUGURATION
Au`gu*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. auguratio.]

Defn: The practice of augury.

AUGURER
Au"gur*er, n.

Defn: An augur. [Obs.] Shak.

AUGURIAL
Au*gu"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. augurialis.]

Defn: Relating to augurs or to augury. Sir T. Browne.

AUGURIST
Au"gu*rist, n.

Defn: An augur. [R.]

AUGURIZE
Au"gur*ize, v. t.

Defn: To augur. [Obs.] Blount.

AUGURIZE
Au"gur*ize, v. t.

Defn: To augur. [Obs.]  Blount.

AUGUROUS
Au"gu*rous, a.

Defn: Full of augury; foreboding. [Obs.] "Augurous hearts." Chapman.

AUGURSHIP
Au"gur*ship, n.

Defn: The office, or period of office, of an augur. Bacon.

AUGURY
Au"gu*ry, n.; pl. Auguries (. Etym: [L. aucurium.]

1. The art or practice of foretelling events by observing the actions
of birds, etc.; divination.

2. An omen; prediction; prognostication; indication of the future;
presage.
From their flight strange auguries she drew. Drayton.
He resigned himself . . . with a docility that gave little augury of
his future greatness. Prescott.

3. A rite, ceremony, or observation of an augur.

AUGUST
Au*gust", a. Etym: [L. augustus; cf. augere to increase; in the
language of religion, to honor by offerings: cf. F. auguste. See
Augment.]

Defn: Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having
an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having
exalted birth, character, state, or authority. "Forms august." Pope.
"August in visage." Dryden. "To shed that august blood." Macaulay.
So beautiful and so august a spectacle. Burke.
To mingle with a body so august. Byron.

Syn.
 -- Grand; magnificent; majestic; solemn; awful; noble; stately;
dignified; imposing.

AUGUST
Au"gust, n. Etym: [L. Augustus. See note below, and August, a.]

Defn: The eighth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.

Note: The old Roman name was Sextilis, the sixth month from March,
the month in which the primitive Romans, as well as Jews, began the
year. The name was changed to August in honor of Augustus Cæsar, the
first emperor of Rome, on account of his victories, and his entering
on his first consulate in that month.

AUGUSTAN
Au*gus"tan, a. Etym: [L. Augustanus, fr. Augustus. See August, n.]

1. Of or pertaining to Augustus Cæsar or to his times.

2. Of or pertaining to the town of Augsburg. Augustan age of any
national literature, the period of its highest state of purity and
refinement; -- so called because the reign of Augustus Cæsar was the
golden age of Roman literature. Thus the reign of Louis XIV. (b.
1638) has been called the Augustan age of French literature, and that
of Queen Anne (b. 1664) the Augustan age of English literature.
 -- Augustan confession (Eccl. Hist.), or confession of Augsburg,
drawn up at Augusta Vindelicorum, or Augsburg, by Luther and
Melanchthon, in 1530, contains the principles of the Protestants, and
their reasons for separating from the Roman Catholic church.

AUGUSTINE; AUGUSTINIAN
Au*gus"tine, Au`gus*tin"i*an, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: A member of one of the religious orders called after St.
Augustine; an Austin friar.

AUGUSTINIAN
Au`gus*tin"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to St. Augustine, bishop of Hippo in Northern
Africa (b. 354 -- d. 430), or to his doctrines. Augustinian canons,
an order of monks once popular in England and Ireland; -- called also
regular canons of St. Austin, and black canons.
 -- Augustinian hermits or Austin friars, an order of friars
established in 1265 by Pope Alexander IV. It was introduced into the
United States from Ireland in 1790.
 -- Augustinian nuns, an order of nuns following the rule of St.
Augustine.
 -- Augustinian rule, a rule for religious communities based upon the
109th letter of St. Augustine, and adopted by the Augustinian orders.

AUGUSTINIAN
Au`gus*tin"i*an, n.

Defn: One of a class of divines, who, following St. Augustine,
maintain that grace by its nature is effectual absolutely and
creatively, not relatively and conditionally.

AUGUSTINIANISM; AUGUSTINISM
Au`gus*tin"i*an*ism, Au*gus"tin*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines held by Augustine or by the Augustinians.

AUGUSTLY
Au*gust"ly, adv.

Defn: In an august manner.

AUGUSTNESS
Au*gust"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being august; dignity of mien; grandeur;
magnificence.

AUK
Auk, n. Etym: [Prov. E. alk; akin to Dan. alke, Icel. & Sw. alka.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A name given to various species of arctic sea birds of the
family Alcidæ. The great auk, now extinct, is Alca (or Plautus)
impennis. The razor-billed auk is A. torda. See Puffin, Guillemot,
and Murre.

AUKWARD
Auk"ward, a.

Defn: See Awkward. [Obs.]

AULARIAN
Au*la"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. aula hall. Cf. LL. aularis of a court.]

Defn: Relating to a hall.

AULARIAN
Au*la"ri*an, n.

Defn: At Oxford, England, a member of a hall, distinguished from a
collegian. Chalmers.

AULD
Auld, a. Etym: [See Old.]

Defn: Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky), i. e., Edinburgh. [Scot. &
Prov. Eng.]

AULD LANG SYNE
Auld` lang syne".

Defn: A Scottish phrase used in recalling recollections of times long
since past. "The days of auld lang syne."

AULD LICHT; AULD LIGHT
Auld licht, Auld light . (Eccl. Hist.)
 (a) A member of the conservative party in the Church of Scotland in
the latter part of the 18th century.
 (b) Same as Burgher, n., 2.

AULETIC
Au*let"ic, a. Etym: [L. auleticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a pipe (flute) or piper. [R.] Ash.

AULIC
Au"lic, a. Etym: [L. aulicus, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to a royal court.
Ecclesiastical wealth and aulic dignities. Landor.
Aulic council (Hist.), a supreme court of the old German empire;
properly the supreme court of the emperor. It ceased at the death of
each emperor, and was renewed by his successor. It became extinct
when the German empire was dissolved, in 1806. The term is now
applied to a council of the war department of the Austrian empire,
and the members of different provincial chanceries of that empire are
called aulic councilors. P. Cyc.

AULIC
Au"lic, n.

Defn: The ceremony observed in conferring the degree of doctor of
divinity in some European universities. It begins by a harangue of
the chancellor addressed to the young doctor, who then receives the
cap, and presides at the disputation (also called the aulic).

AULN
Auln, n.

Defn: An ell. [Obs.] See Aune.

AULNAGE; AULNAGER
Aul"nage, Aul"na*ger, n.

Defn: See Alnage and Alnager.

AUM
Aum, n.

Defn: Same as Aam.

AUMAIL
Au*mail", v. t. Etym: [OE. for amel, enamel.]

Defn: To figure or variegate. [Obs.] Spenser.

AUMBRY
Aum"bry, n.

Defn: Same as Ambry.

AUMERY
Au"me*ry, n.

Defn: A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if a
place for alms.

AUNCEL
Aun"cel, n.

Defn: A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerly
used in England. Halliwell.

AUNCETRY
Aun"cet*ry, n.

Defn: Ancestry. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AUNE
Aune, n. Etym: [F. See Alnage.]

Defn: A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (at
Paris, 0.95 of an English ell); -- now superseded by the meter.

AUNT
Aunt, n. Etym: [OF. ante, F. tante, L. amita father's sister. Cf.
Amma.]

1. The sister of one's father or mother; -- correlative to nephew or
niece. Also applied to an uncle's wife.

Note: Aunt is sometimes applied as a title or term of endearment to a
kind elderly woman not thus related.

2. An old woman; and old gossip. [Obs.] Shak.

3. A bawd, or a prostitute. [Obs.] Shak. Aunt Sally, a puppet head
placed on a pole and having a pipe in its mouth; also a game, which
consists in trying to hit the pipe by throwing short bludgeons at it.

AUNTER
Aun"ter, n.

Defn: Adventure; hap. [Obs.] In aunters, perchance.

AUNTER; AUNTRE
Aun"ter, Aun"tre, v. t. Etym: [See Adventure.]

Defn: To venture; to dare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AUNTIE; AUNTY
Aunt"ie, Aunt"y, n.

Defn: A familiar name for an aunt. In the southern United States a
familiar term applied to aged negro women.

AUNTROUS
Aun"trous, a.

Defn: Adventurous. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AURA
Au"ra, n.; pl. Auræ (. Etym: [L. aura air, akin to Gr.

1. Any subtile, invisible emanation, effluvium, or exhalation from a
substance, as the aroma of flowers, the odor of the blood, a supposed
fertilizing emanation from the pollen of flowers, etc.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The peculiar sensation, as of a light vapor, or cold air,
rising from the trunk or limbs towards the head, a premonitory
symptom of epilepsy or hysterics. Electric ~, a supposed electric
fluid, emanating from an electrified body, and forming a mass
surrounding it, called the electric atmosphere. See Atmosphere, 2.

AURAL
Au"ral, a. Etym: [L. aura air.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura.

AURAL
Au"ral, a. Etym: [L. auris ear.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the ear; as, aural medicine and surgery.

AURANTIACEOUS
Au*ran`ti*a"ceous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the Aurantiaceæ, an order of
plants (formerly considered natural), of which the orange is the
type.

AURATE
Au"rate, n. Etym: [L. auratus, p. p. of aurare to gild, fr. aurum
gold: cf. F. aurate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate or
potassium.

AURATED
Au"ra*ted, a. Etym: [See Aurate.]

1. Resembling or containing gold; gold-colored; gilded.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with auric acid.

AURATED
Au"ra*ted, a.

Defn: Having ears. See Aurited.

AUREATE
Au"re*ate, a. Etym: [L. aureatus, fr. aureus golden, fr. aurum gold.]

Defn: Golden; gilded. Skelton.

AURELIA
Au*re"li*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. aurum gold: cf. F. aurélie. Cf.
Chrysalis.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The chrysalis, or pupa of an insect, esp. when reflecting a
brilliant golden color, as that of some of the butterflies.
(b) A genus of jellyfishes. See Discophora.

AURELIAN
Au*re"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the aurelia.

AURELIAN
Au*re"li*an, n.

Defn: An amateur collector and breeder of insects, esp. of
butterflies and moths; a lepidopterist.

AUREOLA; AUREOLE
Au*re"o*la, Au"re*ole, n. Etym: [F. auréole, fr. L. aureola, (fem
adj.) of gold (sc. corona crown), dim. of aureus. See Aureate,
Oriole.]

1. (R. C. Theol.)

Defn: A celestial crown or accidental glory added to the bliss of
heaven, as a reward to those (as virgins, martyrs, preachers, etc.)
who have overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil.

2. The circle of rays, or halo of light, with which painters surround
the figure and represent the glory of Christ, saints, and others held
in special reverence.

Note: Limited to the head, it is strictly termed a nimbus; when it
envelops the whole body, an aureola. Fairholt.

3. A halo, actual or figurative.
The glorious aureole of light seen around the sun during total
eclipses. Proctor.
The aureole of young womanhood. O. W. Holmes.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: See Areola, 2.

AU REVOIR
Au` re*voir". [F., lit., to the seeing again.]

Defn: Good-by until we meet again.

AURIC
Au"ric, a. Etym: [L. aurum gold.]

1. Of or pertaining to gold.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those
compounds of gold in which this element has its higher valence; as,
auric oxide; auric chloride.

AURICHALCEOUS
Au`ri*chal"ce*ous, a. Etym: [L. aurichalcum, for orichalcum brass.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Brass-colored.

AURICHALCITE
Au`ri*chal"cite, n. Etym: [See Aurichalceous.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous carbonate of copper and zinc, found in pale green or
blue crystalline aggregations. It yields a kind of brass on
reduction.

AURICLE
Au"ri*cle, n. Etym: [L. auricula, dim. of auris ear. See Ear.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) The external ear, or that part of the ear which is prominent from
the head.
(b) The chamber, or one of the two chambers, of the heart, by which
the blood is received and transmitted to the ventricle or ventricles;
-- so called from its resemblance to the auricle or external ear of
some quadrupeds. See Heart.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An angular or ear-shaped lobe.

3. An instrument applied to the ears to give aid in hearing; a kind
of ear trumpet. Mansfield.

AURICLED
Au"ri*cled, a.

Defn: Having ear-shaped appendages or lobes; auriculate; as, auricled
leaves.

AURICULA
Au*ric"u*la, n.; pl. L. Auriculæ (, E. Auriculas (. Etym: [L.
auricula. See Auricle.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A species of Primula, or primrose, called also, from the shape of
its leaves, bear's-ear. (b)
(b) A species of Hirneola (H. auricula), a membranaceous fungus,
called also auricula Judæ, or Jew's-ear. P. Cyc.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) A genus of air-breathing mollusks mostly found near the sea,
where the water is brackish
(b) One of the five arched processes of the shell around the jaws of
a sea urchin.

AURICULAR
Au*ric"u*lar, a. Etym: [LL. auricularis: cf. F. auriculaire. See
Auricle.]

1. Of or pertaining to the ear, or to the sense of hearing; as,
auricular nerves.

2. Told in the ear, i. e., told privately; as, auricular confession
to the priest.
This next chapter is a penitent confession of the king, and the
strangest . . . that ever was auricular. Milton.

3. Recognized by the ear; known by the sense of hearing; as,
auricular evidence. "Auricular assurance." Shak.

4. Received by the ear; known by report. "Auricular traditions."
Bacon.

5. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to the auricles of the heart. Auricular finger, the
little finger; so called because it can be readily introduced into
the ear passage.

AURICULARIA
Au*ric`u*la"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [Neut. pl., fr. LL. auricularis.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of holothurian larva, with soft, blunt appendages. See
Illustration in Appendix.

AURICULARLY
Au*ric"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In an auricular manner.

AURICULARS
Au*ric"u*lars, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A circle of feathers surrounding the opening of the ear of
birds.

AURICULATE; AURICULATED
Au*ric"u*late, Au*ric"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Auricle.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having ears or appendages like ears; eared. Esp.: (a) (Bot.)
Having lobes or appendages like the ear; shaped like the ear;
auricled. (b) (Zoöl.) Having an angular projection on one or both
sides, as in certain bivalve shells, the foot of some gastropods,
etc. Auriculate leaf, one having small appended leaves or lobes on
each side of its petiole or base.

AURIFEROUS
Au*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. aurifer; aurum gold + ferre to bear: cf.
F. aurifère.]

Defn: Gold-bearing; containing or producing gold.
Whence many a bursting stream auriferous plays. Thomson.
~= pyrites, iron pyrites (iron disulphide), containing some gold
disseminated through it.

AURIFLAMME
Au"ri*flamme, n.

Defn: See Oriflamme.

AURIFORM
Au"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. auris ear + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of the human ear; ear-shaped.

AURIGA
Au*ri"ga, n. Etym: [L., charioteer.] (Anat.)

Defn: The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northern
hemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini. It contains the
bright star Capella.

AURIGAL
Au*ri"gal, a. Etym: [L. aurigalis.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a chariot. [R.]

AURIGATION
Au`ri*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. aurigatio, fr. aurigare to be a
charioteer, fr. auriga.]

Defn: The act of driving a chariot or a carriage. [R.] De Quincey.

AURIGRAPHY
Au*rig"ra*phy, n. Etym: [L. aurum gold + -graphy.]

Defn: The art of writing with or in gold.

AURILAVE
Au`ri*lave, n. [L. auris ear + lavare to wash.]

Defn: An instrument for cleansing the ear, consisting of a small
piece of sponge on an ivory or bone handle.

AURIN
Au"rin, n. Etym: [L. aurum gold.] (Chem.)

Defn: A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, in
commerce, yellow coralin.

AURIPHRYGIATE
Au`ri*phryg"i*ate, a. Etym: [LL. auriphrigiatus; L. aurum gold + LL.
phrygiare to adorn with Phrygian needlework, or with embroidery;
perhaps corrupted from some other word. Cf. Orfrays.]

Defn: Embroidered or decorated with gold. [R.] Southey.

AURIPIGMENT
Au`ri*pig"ment, n.

Defn: See Orpiment. [Obs.]

AURISCALP
Au"ri*scalp, n. Etym: [L. auris ear + scalpere to scrape.]

Defn: An earpick.

AURISCOPE
Au"ri*scope, n. Etym: [L. auris + -scope.] (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.

AURISCOPY
Au*ris"co*py, n.

Defn: Examination of the ear by the aid of the auriscope.

AURIST
Au"rist, n. Etym: [L. auris ear.]

Defn: One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear.

AURITED
Au"ri*ted, a. Etym: [L. auritus, fr. auris ear.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having lobes like the ear; auriculate.

AURIVOROUS
Au*riv"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. aurum gold + vorare to devour.]

Defn: Gold-devouring. [R.] H. Walpole.

AUROCEPHALOUS
Au`ro*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Aurum + cephalous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having a gold-colored head.

AUROCHLORIDE
Au`ro*chlo"ride, n. Etym: [Aurum + chloride.] (Chem.)

Defn: The trichloride of gold combination with the chloride of
another metal, forming a double chloride; -- called also chloraurate.

AUROCHS
Au"rochs, n. Etym: [G. auerochs, OHG. ; (cf. AS. ) + ohso ox, G.
ochs. Cf. Owre, Ox.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European bison (Bison bonasus, or Europæus), once widely
distributed, but now nearly extinct, except where protected in the
Lithuanian forests, and perhaps in the Caucasus. It is distinct from
the Urus of Cæsar, with which it has often been confused.

AUROCYANIDE
Au`ro*cy"a*nide, n. Etym: [Aurum + cyanide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A double cyanide of gold and some other metal or radical; --
called also cyanaurate.

AURORA
Au*ro"ra, n.; pl. E. Auroras (, L. (rarely used) Auroræ (. Etym: [L.
aurora, for ausosa, akin to Gr. ushas, and E. east.]

1. The rising light of the morning; the dawn of day; the redness of
the sky just before the sun rises.

2. The rise, dawn, or beginning. Hawthorne.

3. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The Roman personification of the dawn of day; the goddess of
the morning. The poets represented her a rising out of the ocean, in
a chariot, with rosy fingers dropping gentle dew.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of crowfoot. Johnson.

5. The aurora borealis or aurora australis (northern or southern
lights). Aurora borealis (, i. e., northern daybreak; popularly
called northern lights. A luminous meteoric phenomenon, visible only
at night, and supposed to be of electrical origin. This species of
light usually appears in streams, ascending toward the zenith from a
dusky line or bank, a few degrees above the northern horizon; when
reaching south beyond the zenith, it forms what is called the corona,
about a spot in the heavens toward which the dipping needle points.
Occasionally the aurora appears as an arch of light across the
heavens from east to west. Sometimes it assumes a wavy appearance,
and the streams of light are then called merry dancers. They assume a
variety of colors, from a pale red or yellow to a deep red or blood
color. The Aurora australis (is a corresponding phenomenon in the
southern hemisphere, the streams of light ascending in the same
manner from near the southern horizon.

AURORAL
Au*ro"ral, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, the aurora (the dawn or the
northern lights); rosy.
Her cheeks suffused with an auroral blush. Longfellow.

AUROUS
Au"rous, a.

1. Containing gold.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those
compounds of gold in which this element has its lower valence; as,
aurous oxide.

AURUM
Au"rum, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Gold. Aurum fulminans (See Fulminate.
 -- Aurum mosaicum (See Mosaic.

AUSCULT
Aus*cult", v. i. & t.

Defn: To auscultate.

AUSCULTATE
Aus"cul*tate, v. i. & t.

Defn: To practice auscultation; to examine by auscultation.

AUSCULTATION
Aus`cul*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. ausculcatio, fr. auscultare to listen,
fr. a dim. of auris, orig. ausis, ear. See Auricle, and cf. Scout,
n.]

1. The act of listening or hearkening to. Hickes.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An examination by listening either directly with the ear
(immediate auscultation) applied to parts of the body, as the
abdomen; or with the stethoscope (mediate ~), in order to distinguish
sounds recognized as a sign of health or of disease.

AUSCULTATOR
Aus"cul*ta`tor, n.

Defn: One who practices auscultation.

AUSCULTATORY
Aus*cul"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to auscultation. Dunglison.

AUSONIAN
Au*so"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Ausonia, poetic name for Italy.]

Defn: Italian. Milton.

AUSPICATE
Aus"pi*cate, a. Etym: [L. auspicatus, p. p. of auspicari to take
auspices, fr. auspex a bird seer, an augur, a contr. of avispex; avis
bird + specere, spicere, to view. See Aviary, Spy.]

Defn: Auspicious. [Obs.] Holland.

AUSPICATE
Aus"pi*cate, v. t.

1. To foreshow; to foretoken. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

2. To give a favorable turn to in commencing; to inaugurate; -- a
sense derived from the Roman practice of taking the auspicium, or
inspection of birds, before undertaking any important business.
They auspicate all their proceedings. Burke.

AUSPICE
Aus"pice, n.; pl. Auspices (. Etym: [L. auspicium, fr. auspex: cf. F.
auspice. See Auspicate, a.]

1. A divining or taking of omens by observing birds; an omen as to an
undertaking, drawn from birds; an augury; an omen or sign in general;
an indication as to the future.

2. Protection; patronage and care; guidance.
Which by his auspice they will nobler make. Dryden.

Note: In this sense the word is generally plural, auspices; as, under
the auspices of the king.

AUSPICIAL
Aus*pi"cial, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to auspices; auspicious. [R.]

AUSPICIOUS
Aus*pi"cious, a. Etym: [See Auspice.]

1. Having omens or tokens of a favorable issue; giving promise of
success, prosperity, or happiness; predicting good; as, an auspicious
beginning.
Auspicious union of order and freedom. Macaulay.

2. Prosperous; fortunate; as, auspicious years. "Auspicious chief."
Dryden.

3. Favoring; favorable; propitious; -- applied to persons or things.
"Thy auspicious mistress." Shak. "Auspicious gales." Pope.

Syn.
 -- See Propitious.
 -- Aus*pi"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Aus*pi"cious*ness, n.

AUSTER
Aus"ter, n. Etym: [L. auster a dry, hot, south wind; the south.]

Defn: The south wind. Pope.

AUSTERE
Aus*tere", Etym: [F. austère, L. austerus, fr. Gr. Sear.]

1. Sour and astringent; rough to the state; having acerbity; as, an
austere crab apple; austere wine.

2. Severe in modes of judging, or living, or acting; rigid; rigorous;
stern; as, an austere man, look, life.
From whom the austere Etrurian virtue rose. Dryden.

3. Unadorned; unembellished; severely simple.

Syn.
 -- Harsh; sour; rough; rigid; stern; severe; rigorous; strict.

AUSTERELY
Aus*tere"ly, adv.

Defn: Severely; rigidly; sternly.
A doctrine austerely logical. Macaulay.

AUSTERENESS
Aus*tere"ness, n.

1. Harshness or astringent sourness to the taste; acerbity. Johnson.

2. Severity; strictness; austerity. Shak.

AUSTERITY
Aus*ter"i*ty, n.; pl. Austplwies (. Etym: [F. austérité, L.
austerias, fr. austerus. See Austere.]

1. Sourness and harshness to the taste. [Obs.] Horsley.

2. Severity of manners or life; extreme rigor or strictness; harsh
discipline.
The austerity of John the Baptist. Milton.

3. Plainness; freedom from adornment; severe simplicity.
Partly owing to the studied austerity of her dress, and partly to the
lack of demonstration in her manners. Hawthorne.

AUSTIN
Aus"tin, a.

Defn: Augustinian; as, Austin friars.

AUSTRAL
Aus"tral, a. Etym: [L. australis, fr. auster: cf. F. austral.]

Defn: Southern; lying or being in the south; as, austral land;
austral ocean. Austral signs (Astron.), the last six signs of the
zodiac, or those south of the equator.

AUSTRALASIAN
Aus`tral*a"sian, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Australasia; as, Australasian regions.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Australasia.

AUSTRALIAN
Aus*tra"li*an, a. Etym: [From L. Terra Australis southern land.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Australia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Australia.

AUSTRALIAN BALLOT
Aus*tra"li*an bal"lot. (Law)

Defn: A system of balloting or voting in public elections, originally
used in South Australia, in which there is such an arrangement for
polling votes that secrecy is compulsorily maintained, and the ballot
used is an official ballot printed and distributed by the government.

AUSTRALIZE
Aus"tral*ize, v. i. Etym: [See Austral.]

Defn: To tend toward the south pole, as a magnet. [Obs.]
They [magnets] do septentrionate at one extreme, and australize at
another. Sir T. Browne.

AUSTRIAN
Aus"tri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Austria, or to its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Austria.

AUSTRINE
Aus"trine, n. Etym: [L. austrinus, from auster south.]

Defn: Southern; southerly; austral. [Obs.] Bailey.

AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN
Aus"tro-Hun*ga"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the monarchy composed of Austria and
Hungary.

AUSTROMANCY
Aus"tro*man`cy, n. Etym: [L. auster south wind + -mancy.]

Defn: Soothsaying, or prediction of events, from observation of the
winds.

AUSZUG
Aus"zug` (ous"tsook), n.; Ger. pl. -zÜge (-tsü`ge). [G.]

Defn: See Army organization, Switzerland.

AUTARCHY
Au"tar*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Self-sufficiency. [Obs.] Milton.

AUTHENTIC
Au*then"tic, a. Etym: [OE. autentik, OF. autentique, F. authentique,
L. authenticus coming from the real author, of original or firsthand
authority, from Gr. sons and perh. orig. from the p. pr. of to be,
root as, and meaning the one it really is. See Am, Sin, n., and cf.
Effendi.]

1. Having a genuine original or authority, in opposition to that
which is false, fictitious, counterfeit, or apocryphal; being what it
purports to be; genuine; not of doubtful origin; real; as, an
authentic paper or register.
To be avenged On him who had stole Jove's authentic fire. Milton.

2. Authoritative. [Obs.] Milton.

3. Of approved authority; true; trustworthy; credible; as, an
authentic writer; an authentic portrait; authentic information.

4. (Law)

Defn: Vested with all due formalities, and legally attested.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: Having as immediate relation to the tonic, in distinction from
plagal, which has a correspondent relation to the dominant in the
octave below the tonic.

Syn.
 -- Authentic, Genuine. These words, as here compared, have reference
to historical documents. We call a document genuine when it can be
traced back ultimately to the author or authors from whom it
professes to emanate. Hence, the word has the meaning, "not changed
from the original, uncorrupted, unadulterated:" as, a genuine text.
We call a document authentic when, on the ground of its being thus
traced back, it may be relied on as true and authoritative (from the
primary sense of "having an author, vouched for"); hence its extended
signification, in general literature, of trustworthy, as resting on
unquestionable authority or evidence; as, an authentic history; an
authentic report of facts.
A genuine book is that which was written by the person whose name it
bears, as the author of it. An authentic book is that which relates
matters of fact as they really happened. A book may be genuine
without being, authentic, and a book may be authentic without being
genuine. Bp. Watson.

Note: It may be said, however, that some writers use authentic (as,
an authentic document) in the sense of "produced by its professed
author, not counterfeit."

AUTHENTIC
Au*then"tic, n.

Defn: An original (book or document). [Obs.] "Authentics and
transcripts." Fuller.

AUTHENTICAL
Au*then"tic*al, a.

Defn: Authentic. [Archaic]

AUTHENTICALLY
Au*then"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an authentic manner; with the requisite or genuine
authority.

AUTHENTICALNESS
Au*then*tic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Barrow.

AUTHENTICATE
Au*then"ti*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Authenticated (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Authenticating ( Etym: [Cf. LL. authenticare.]

1. To render authentic; to give authority to, by the proof,
attestation, or formalities required by law, or sufficient to entitle
to credit.
The king serves only as a notary to authenticate the choice of
judges. Burke.

2. To prove authentic; to determine as real and true; as, to
authenticate a portrait. Walpole.

AUTHENTICITY
Au`then*tic"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. authenticité.]

1. The quality of being authentic or of established authority for
truth and correctness.

2. Genuineness; the quality of being genuine or not corrupted from
the original.

Note: In later writers, especially those on the evidences of
Christianity, authenticity is often restricted in its use to the
first of the above meanings, and distinguished from qenuineness.

AUTHENTICLY
Au*then"tic*ly, adv.

Defn: Authentically.

AUTHENTICNESS
Au*then"tic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Hammond.

AUTHENTICS
Au*then"tics, n. (Ciwil Law)

Defn: A collection of the Novels or New Constitutions of Justinian,
by an anonymous author; -- so called on account of its authencity.
Bouvier.

AUTHOR
Au"thor, n. Etym: [OE. authour, autour, OF. autor, F. auteur, fr. L.
auctor, sometimes, but erroneously, written autor or author, fr.
augere to increase, to produce. See Auction, n.]

1. The beginner, former, or first mover of anything; hence, the
efficient cause of a thing; a creator; an originator.
Eternal King; thee, Author of all being. Milton.

2. One who composes or writers a book; a composer, as distinguished
from an editor, translator, or compiler.
The chief glory every people arises from its authors. Johnson.

3. The editor of a periodical. [Obs.]

4. An informant. [Archaic] Chaucer.

AUTHOR
Au"thor, v. t.

1. To occasion; to originate. [Obs.]
Such an overthrow . . . I have authored. Chapman.

2. To tell; to say; to declare. [Obs.]
More of him I dare not author. Massinger.

AUTHORESS
Au"thor*ess, n.

Defn: A female author. Glover.

Note: The word is not very much used, author being commonly applied
to a female writer as well as to a male.

AUTHORIAL
Au*tho"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an author. "The authorial Hare.

AUTHORISM
Au"thor*ism, n.

Defn: Authoriship. [R.]

AUTHORITATIVE
Au*thor"i*ta*tive, a.

1. Having, or proceeding from, due authority; entitled to obedience,
credit, or acceptance; determinate; commanding.
The sacred functions of authoritative teaching. Barrow.

2. Having an air of authority; positive; dictatorial; peremptory; as,
an authoritative tone.
The mock authoritative manner of the one, and the insipid mirth of
the other. Swift.
-- Au*thor"i*ta*tive*ly, adv -- Au*thor"i*ta*tive*ness, n.

AUTHORITY
Au*thor"i*ty, n.; pl. Authorities (. Etym: [OE. autorite, auctorite,
F. autorité, fr. L. auctoritas, fr. auctor. See Author, n.]

1. Legal or rightful power; a right to command or to act; power
exercised buy a person in virtue of his office or trust; dominion;
jurisdiction; authorization; as, the authority of a prince over
subjects, and of parents over children; the authority of a court.
Thus can the demigod, Authority, Make us pay down for our offense.
Shak.
By what authority doest thou these things Matt. xxi. 23.

2. Government; the persons or the body exercising power or command;
as, the local authorities of the States; the military authorities.
[Chiefly in the plural.]

3. The power derived from opinion, respect, or esteem; influence of
character, office, or station, or mental or moral superiority, and
the like; claim to be believed or obeyed; as, an historian of no
authority; a magistrate of great authority.

4. That which, or one who, is claimed or appealed to in support of
opinions, actions, measures, etc. Hence:
(a) Testimony; witness. "And on that high authority had believed."
Milton.
(b) A precedent; a decision of a court, an official declaration, or
an opinion, saying, or statement worthy to be taken as a precedent.
(c) A book containing such a statement or opinion, or the author of
the book.
(d) Justification; warrant.
Wilt thou be glass wherein it shall discern Authority for sin,
warrant for blame. Shak.

AUTHORIZABLE
Au"thor*i`za*ble, a. Etym: [LL. authorisabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being authorized. Hammond.

AUTHORIZATION
Au`thor*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. autorisation.]

Defn: The act of giving authority or legal power; establishment by
authority; sanction or warrant.
The authorization of laws. Motley.
A special authorization from the chief. Merivale.

AUTHORIZE
Au"thor*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Authorized (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Authorizing.] Etym: [OE. autorize, F. autoriser, fr. LL. auctorizare,
authorisare. See Author.]

1. To clothe with authority, warrant, or legal power; to give a right
to act; to empower; as, to authorize commissioners to settle a
boundary.

2. To make legal; to give legal sanction to; to legalize; as, to
authorize a marriage.

3. To establish by authority, as by usage or public opinion; to
sanction; as, idioms authorized by usage.

4. To sanction or confirm by the authority of some one; to warrant;
as, to authorize a report.
A woman's story at a winter's fire, Authorized by her grandam. Shak.

5. To justify; to furnish a ground for. Locke.

AUTHORIZED
Au"thor*ized, a.

1. Possessed of or endowed with authority; as, an authorized agent.

2. Sanctioned by authority. The Authorized Version of the Bible is
the English translation of the Bible published in 1611 under sanction
of King James I. It was "appointed to be read in churches," and has
been the accepted English Bible. The Revised Version was published in
a complete form in 1855.

AUTHORIZE ONE'S SELF
To authorize one's self

Defn: , to rely for authority. [Obs.]
Authorizing himself, for the most part, upon other histories. Sir P.
Sidney.

AUTHORIZER
Au"thor*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who authorizes.

AUTHORLESS
Au"thor*less, a.

Defn: Without an author; without authority; anonymous.

AUTHORLY
Au"thor*ly, a.

Defn: Authorial. [R.] Cowper.

AUTHORSHIP
Au"thor*ship, n.

1. The quality or state of being an author; function or dignity of an
author.

2. Source; origin; origination; as, the authorship of a book or
review, or of an act, or state of affairs.

AUTHOTYPE
Au"tho*type, n.

Defn: A type or block containing a facsimile of an autograph. Knight.

AUTO-
Au"to- (. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form, with the meaning of self, one's self, one's
own, itself, its own.

AUTOBIOGRAPHER
Au`to*bi*og"ra*pher, n. Etym: [Auto- + biographer.]

Defn: One who writers his own life or biography.

AUTOBIOGRAPHIC; AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL
Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic, Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, autobiography; as, an
autobiographical sketch. "Such traits of the autobiographic sort."
Carlyle.
 -- Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

AUTOBIOGRAPHIST
Au`to*bi*og"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One who writes his own life; an autobiographer. [R.]

AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Au`to*bi*og"ra*phy, n.; pl. Autobiographies (. Etym: [Auto- +
biography.]

Defn: A biography written by the subject of it; memoirs of one's life
written by one's self.

AUTOCARPOUS; AUTOCARPIAN
Au`to*car"pous, Au`to*car"pi*an, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Consisting of the pericarp of the ripened pericarp with no
other parts adnate to it, as a peach, a poppy capsule, or a grape.

AUTOCATALYSIS
Au`to*ca*tal"y*sis, n.  [Auto-+ catalysis.] (Chem.)

Defn: Self-catalysis; catalysis of a substance by one of its own
products, as of silver oxide by the silver formed by reduction of a
small portion of it. -- Au`to*cat`a*lyt"ic (#), a.

AUTOCEPHALOUS
Au`to*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: Having its own head; independent of episcopal or patriarchal
jurisdiction, as certain Greek churches.

AUTOCHRONOGRAPH
Au`to*chron"o*graph, n. Etym: [Auto- + chronograph.]

Defn: An instrument for the instantaneous self-recording or printing
of time. Knight.

AUTOCHTHON
Au*toch"thon, n.; pl. E. Authochthons (, L. Autochthones (. Etym:
[L., fr. Gr.

1. One who is supposed to rise or spring from the ground or the soil
he inhabits; one of the original inhabitants or aborigines; a native;
-- commonly in the plural. This title was assumed by the ancient
Greeks, particularly the Athenians.

2. That which is original to a particular country, or which had there
its origin.

AUTOCHTHONAL; AUTHOCHTHONIC; AUTOCHTHONOUS
Au*toch"tho*nal, Au`thoch*thon"ic, Au*toch"tho*nous, a.

Defn: Aboriginal; indigenous; native.

AUTOCHTHONISM
Au*toch"tho*nism, n.

Defn: The state of being autochthonal.

AUTOCHTHONY
Au*toch"tho*ny, n.

Defn: An aboriginal or autochthonous condition.

AUTOCLASTIC
Au`to*clas"tic, a. [See Auto-; Clastic.] (Geol.)

Defn: Broken in place; -- said of rocks having a broken or brecciated
structure due to crushing, in contrast to those of brecciated
materials brought from a distance.

AUTOCLAVE
Au"to*clave, n. Etym: [F., fr. Gr. clavis key.]

Defn: A kind of French stewpan with a steamtight lid. Knight.

AUTOCOHERER
Au`to*co*her"er, n.  [Auto- + coherer.] (Wireless Teleg.)

Defn: A self-restoring coherer, as a microphonic detector.

AUTOCRACY
Au*toc"ra*cy, n.; pl. Autocracies. Etym: [Gr. autocratie. See
Autocrat.]

1. Independent or self-derived power; absolute or controlling
authority; supremacy.
The divine will moves, not by the external impulse or inclination of
objects, but determines itself by an absolute autocracy. South.

2. Supreme, uncontrolled, unlimited authority, or right of governing
in a single person, as of an autocrat.

3. Political independence or absolute sovereignty (of a state);
autonomy. Barlow.

4. (Med.)

Defn: The action of the vital principle, or of the instinctive
powers, toward the preservation of the individual; also, the vital
principle. [In this sense, written also autocrasy.] Dunglison.

AUTOCRAT
Au"to*crat, n. Etym: [Gr. autocrate. See Hard, a.]

1. An absolute sovereign; a monarch who holds and exercises the
powers of government by claim of absolute right, not subject to
restriction; as, Autocrat of all the Russias (a title of the Czar).

2. One who rules with undisputed sway in any company or relation; a
despot.
The autocrat of the breakfast table. Holmes.

AUTOCRATIC; AUTOCRATICAL
Au`to*crat"ic, Au`to*crat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute;
holding independent and arbitrary powers of government.
 -- Au`to*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.

AUTOCRATOR
Au*toc"ra*tor, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An autocrat. [Archaic]

AUTOCRATORICAL
Au`to*cra*tor"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to an autocrator; absolute. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

AUTOCRATRIX
Au*toc"ra*trix, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A female sovereign who is independent and absolute; -- a title
given to the empresses of Russia.

AUTOCRATSHIP
Au"to*crat*ship, n.

Defn: The office or dignity of an autocrat.

AUTO-DA-FE
Au"to-da-fé", n.; pl. Autos-da-fé (. Etym: [Pg., act of the faith;
auto act, fr. L. actus + da of the + fé faith, fr. L. fides.]

1. A judgment of the Inquisition in Spain and Portugal condemning or
acquitting persons accused of religious offenses.

2. An execution of such sentence, by the civil power, esp. the
burning of a heretic. It was usually held on Sunday, and was made a
great public solemnity by impressive forms and ceremonies.

3. A session of the court of Inquisition.

AUTO-DE-FE
Au"to-de-fe", n.; pl. Autos-de-fe. Etym: [Sp., act of faith.]

Defn: Same as Auto-da-fé.

AUTODIDACT
Au"to*di*dact`, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who is self-taught; an automath.

AUTODYNAMIC
Au`to*dy*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Auto- + dynamic.]

Defn: Supplying its own power; -- applied to an instrument of the
nature of a water-ram.

AUTOECIOUS
Au*to"cious, a.  [Auto-+ Gr.  house.] (Biol.)

Defn: Passing through all its stages on one host, as certain
parasitic fungi; -- contrasted with heterocious.

AUTOECISM
Au*to"cism, n.

Defn: Quality of being autocious.

AUTOFECUNDATION
Au`to*fec`un*da"tion, n. Etym: [Auto- + fecundation.] (Biol.)

Defn: Self-impregnation. Darwin.

AUTOGAMOUS
Au*tog"a*mous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Characterized by autogamy; self-fertilized.

AUTOGAMY
Au*tog"a*my, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Self-fertilization, the fertilizing pollen being derived from
the same blossom as the pistil acted upon.

AUTOGENEAL
Au`to*ge"ne*al, a.

Defn: Self-produced; autogenous.

AUTOGENESIS
Au`to*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Auto- + genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Spontaneous generation.

AUTOGENETIC
Au`to*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to autogenesis; self-generated.

AUTOGENETIC DRAINAGE
Autogenetic drainage. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A system of natural drainage developed by the constituent
streams through headwater erosion.

AUTOGENETIC TOPOGRAPHY
Autogenetic topography. (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: A system of land forms produced by the free action of rain and
streams on rocks of uniform texture.

AUTOGENOUS
Au*tog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Self-generated; produced independently.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Developed from an independent center of ossification. Owen.
Autogenous soldering, the junction by fusion of the joining edges of
metals without the intervention of solder.

AUTOGENOUSLY
Au*tog"e*nous*ly, adv.

Defn: In an autogenous manner; spontaneously.

AUTOGRAPH
Au"to*graph, n. Etym: [F. autographe, fr. Gr.

Defn: That which is written with one's own hand; an original
manuscript; a person's own signature or handwriting.

AUTOGRAPH
Au"to*graph, a.

Defn: In one's own handwriting; as, an autograph letter; an autograph
will.

AUTOGRAPHAL
Au*tog"ra*phal, a.

Defn: Autographic. [Obs.]

AUTOGRAPHIC; AUTOGRAPHICAL
Au`to*graph"ic, Au`to*graph"ic*al, a.

1. Pertaining to an autograph, or one's own handwriting; of the
nature of an autograph.

2. Pertaining to, or used in, the process of autography; as,
autographic ink, paper, or press.

AUTOGRAPHY
Au*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. autographie.]

1. The science of autographs; a person's own handwriting; an
autograph.

2. A process in lithography by which a writing or drawing is
transferred from paper to stone. Ure.

AUTOHARP
Au"to*harp, n.  [Auto- + harp.]

Defn: A zitherlike musical instrument, provided with dampers which,
when depressed, deaden some strings, leaving free others that form a
chord.

AUTOHYPNOTIC
Au`to*hyp*not"ic, a.

Defn: Pert. to autohypnotism; self-hypnotizing. -- n.

Defn: An autohypnotic person.

AUTOHYPNOTISM
Au`to*hyp"no*tism, n.  [Auto-+ hypnotism.]

Defn: Hypnotism of one's self by concentration of the attention on
some object or idea.

AUTO-INFECTION
Au`to-in*fec"tion, n.  [Auto- + infection.] (Med.)

Defn: Poisoning caused by a virus that originates and develops in the
organism itself.

AUTO-INOCULATION
Au`to-in*oc`u*la"tion, n.  [Auto-+ inoculation.] (Med.)

Defn: Inoculation of a person with virus from his own body.

AUTO-INTOXICATION
Au`to-in*tox`i*ca"tion, n.  [Auto-+ intoxication.] (Med.)

Defn: Poisoning, or the state of being poisoned, from toxic
substances produced within the body; autotoxæmia.

AUTOKINESIS
Au`to*ki*ne"sis, n. [NL.; auto-+ Gr.  motion.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Spontaneous or voluntary movement; movement due to an internal
cause.

AUTOKINETIC
Au`to*ki*net"ic, a.  [Auto- + kinetic.]

Defn: Self-moving; moving automatically.

AUTOKINETIC SYSTEM
Autokinetic system.

Defn: In fire-alarm telegraphy, a system so arranged that when one
alarm is being transmitted, no other alarm, sent in from another
point, will be transmitted until after the first alarm has been
disposed of.

AUTOLATRY
Au*tol"a*try, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr.

Defn: Self-worship. Farrar.

AUTOMATH
Au"to*math, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who is self-taught. [R.] Young.

AUTOMATIC; AUTOMATICAL
Au`to*mat"ic, Au`to*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. automatique. See
Automaton.]

1. Having an inherent power of action or motion.
Nothing can be said to be automatic. Sir H. Davy.

2. Pertaining to, or produced by, an automaton; of the nature of an
automaton; self-acting or self-regulating under fixed conditions; --
esp. applied to machinery or devices in which certain things formerly
or usually done by hand are done by the machine or device itself; as,
the automatic feed of a lathe; automatic gas lighting; an automatic
engine or switch; an automatic mouse.

3. Not voluntary; not depending on the will; mechanical; as,
automatic movements or functions.
Unconscious or automatic reasoning. H. Spenser.
Automatic arts, such economic arts or manufacture as are carried on
by self-acting machinery. Ure.

AUTOMATICALLY
Au`to*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In an automatic manner.

AUTOMATISM
Au*tom"a*tism, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being automatic; the power of self-
moving; automatic, mechanical, or involuntary action. (Metaph.) A
theory as to the activity of matter.

AUTOMATON
Au*tom"a*ton, n.; pl. L. Automata (, E. Automatons (. Etym: [L. fr.
Gr. ma, man, to strive, think, cf. Mean, v. i.]

1. Any thing or being regarded as having the power of spontaneous
motion or action. Huxley.
So great and admirable an automaton as the world. Boyle.
These living automata, human bodies. Boyle.

2. A self-moving machine, or one which has its motive power within
itself; -- applied chiefly to machines which appear to imitate
spontaneously the motions of living beings, such as men, birds, etc.

AUTOMATOUS
Au*tom"a*tous, a. Etym: [L. automatus, Gr. Automaton.]

Defn: Automatic. [Obs.] "Automatous organs." Sir T. Browne.

AUTOMIXTE SYSTEM
Au`to*mixte" system. (Mach.)

Defn: A system (devised by Henri Pieper, a Belgian) of driving
automobiles employing a gasoline engine and an auxiliary reversible
dynamo. When there is an excess of power the dynamo is driven by the
engine so as to charge a small storage battery; when there is a
deficiency of power the dynamo reverses and acts as an auxiliary
motor. Sometimes called Pieper system. -- Automixte car, etc.

AUTOMOBILE
Au`to*mo"bile, n. [F.]

Defn: An automobile vehicle or mechanism; esp., a self-propelled
vehicle suitable for use on a street or roadway. Automobiles are
usually propelled by internal combustion engines (using volatile
inflammable liquids, as gasoline or petrol, alcohol, naphtha, etc.),
steam engines, or electric motors. The power of the driving motor
varies from about 4 to 50 H. P. for ordinary vehicles, ranging from
the run-about to the touring car, up to as high as 200 H. P. for
specially built racing cars. Automobiles are also commonly, and
generally in British usage, called motor cars.

AUTOMOBILISM
Au`to*mo"bil*ism, n.

Defn: The use of automobiles, or the practices, methods, or the like,
of those who use them. -- Au`to*mo"bil*ist, n.

AUTOMORPHIC
Au`to*mor"phic, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr.

Defn: Patterned after one's self.
The conception which any one frames of another's mind is more or less
after the pattern of his own mind, -- is automorphic. H. Spenser.

AUTOMORPHISM
Au`to*mor"phism, n.

Defn: Automorphic characterization. H. Spenser.

AUTONOMASY
Au`to*nom"a*sy, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. antonomasia.] (Rhet.)

Defn: The use of a word of common or general signification for the
name of a particular thing; as, "He has gone to town," for, "He has
gone to London."

AUTONOMIC
Au`to*nom"ic, a.

Defn: Having the power of self-government; autonomous. Hickok.

AUTONOMIST
Au"to"no*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. automiste. See Autonomy.]

Defn: One who advocates autonomy.

AUTONOMOUS
Au*ton"o*mous, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Independent in government; having the right or power of self-
government.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Having independent existence or laws.

AUTONOMY
Au*ton"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. autonomie. See Autonomous.]

1. The power or right of self-government; self-government, or
political independence, of a city or a state.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: The sovereignty of reason in the sphere of morals; or man's
power, as possessed of reason, to give law to himself. In this,
according to Kant, consist the true nature and only possible proof of
liberty. Fleming.

AUTOPATHIC
Au`to*path"ic, a. [See Auto-, and Pathic, a.] (Med.)

Defn: Dependent upon, or due or relating to, the structure and
characteristics of the diseased organism; endopathic; as, an
autopathic disease; an autopathic theory of diseases.

AUTOPHAGI
Au*toph"a*gi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Birds which are able to run about and obtain their own food as
soon as hatched.

AUTOPHAGY
Au*toph"a*gy, n. [Gr.  self +  to eat.] (Med.)

Defn: The feeding of the body upon itself, as in fasting; nutrition
by consumption of one's own tissues.

AUTOPHOBY
Au*toph"o*by, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr.

Defn: Fear of one's self; fear of being egotistical. [R.] Hare.

AUTOPHONY
Au*toph"o*ny, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An auscultatory process, which consists in noting the tone of
the observer's own voice, while he speaks, holding his head close to
the patient's chest. Dunglison.

AUTOPLASTIC
Au`to*plas"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to autoplasty.

AUTOPLASTY
Au"to*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Auto- + -plasty.] (Surg.)

Defn: The process of artificially repairing lesions by taking a piece
of healthy tissue, as from a neighboring part, to supply the
deficiency caused by disease or wounds.

AUTOPNEUMATIC
Au`to*pneu*mat"ic, a.  [Auto-+ pneumatic.]

Defn: Acting or moving automatically by means of compressed air.

AUTOPSIC; AUTOPSICAL
Au*top"sic, Au*top"sic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to autopsy; autoptical. [Obs.]

AUTOPSORIN
Au*top"so*rin, n. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: That which is given under the doctrine of administering a
patient's own virus.

AUTOPSY
Au"top*sy, n. Etym: [Gr. autopsie. See Optic, a.]

1. Personal observation or examination; seeing with one's own eyes;
ocular view.
By autopsy and experiment. Cudworth.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Dissection of a dead body, for the purpose of ascertaining the
cause, seat, or nature of a disease; a post-mortem examination.

AUTOPTIC; AUTOPTICAL
Au*top"tic, Au*top"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. autoptique.]

Defn: Seen with one's own eyes; belonging to, or connected with,
personal observation; as, autoptic testimony or experience.

AUTOPTICALLY
Au*top"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By means of ocular view, or one's own observation. Sir T.
Browne.

AUTOSCHEDIASTIC; AUTOSCHEDIASTICAL
Au`to*sche`di*as"tic, Au`to*sche`di*as"tic*al, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr.
Schediasm.]

Defn: Extemporary; offhand. [R.] Dean Martin.

AUTOSTABILITY
Au`to*sta*bil"i*ty, n.  [Auto-+ stability.] (Mechanics)

Defn: Automatic stability; also, inherent stability. An aëroplane is
inherently stable if it keeps in steady poise by virtue of its shape
and proportions alone; it is automatically stable if it keeps in
steady poise by means of self-operative mechanism.

AUTOSTYLIC
Au`to*styl"ic, a. Etym: [Auto- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Having the mandibular arch articulated directly to the cranium,
as in the skulls of the Amphibia.

AUTOSUGGESTION
Au`to*sug*ges"tion, n.  [Auto-+ suggestion.] (Med.)

Defn: Self-suggestion as distinguished from suggestion coming from
another, esp. in hypnotism. Autosuggestion is characteristic of
certain mental conditions in which expectant belief tends to produce
disturbance of function of one or more organs.

AUTOTHEISM
Au"to*the`ism, n. Etym: [Auto- + theism.]

1. The doctrine of God's self-existence. [R.]

2. Deification of one's self; self-worship. [R.]

AUTOTHEIST
Au"to*the`ist, n.

Defn: One given to self-worship. [R.]

AUTOTOXAEMIA; AUTOTOXEMIA
Au`to*tox*æ"mi*a, Au`to*tox*e"mi*a, n. [NL. See Auto-, and Toxæmia.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: Self-intoxication. See Auto-intoxication.

AUTOTOXIC
Au`to*tox"ic, a.  [Auto- + toxic.] (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or causing, autotoxæmia.

AUTOTOXICATION
Au`to*tox`i*ca"tion, n.  [Auto-+ toxication.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Auto-intoxication.

AUTOTRANSFORMER
Au`to*trans*form"er, n.  [Auto-+ transformer.] (Elec.)

Defn: A transformer in which part of the primary winding is used as a
secondary winding, or vice versa; -- called also a compensator or
balancing coil.

AUTOTROPHIC
Au`to*troph"ic, a.  [Auto- + trophic.] (Plant Physiol.)

Defn: Capable of self-nourishment; -- said of all plants in which
photosynthetic activity takes place, as opposed to parasitism or
saprophytism.

AUTOTROPISM
Au*tot"ro*pism, n.  [Auto- + Gr.  to turn.] (Plant Physiol.)

Defn: The tendency of plant organs to grow in a straight line when
uninfluenced by external stimuli.

AUTOTYPE
Au"to*type, n. Etym: [Auto- + -type: cf. F. autotype.]

1. A facsimile.

2. A photographic picture produced in sensitized pigmented gelatin by
exposure to light under a negative; and subsequent washing out of the
soluble parts; a kind of picture in ink from a gelatin plate.

AUTOTYPOGRAPHY
Au`to*ty*pog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Auto- + typography.]

Defn: A process resembling "nature printing," by which drawings
executed on gelatin are impressed into a soft metal plate, from which
the printing is done as from copperplate.

AUTOTYPY
Au*tot"y*py, n.

Defn: The art or process of making autotypes.

AUTUMN
Au"tumn, n. Etym: [L. auctumnus, autumnus, perh. fr. a root av to
satisfy one's self: cf. F. automne. See Avarice.]

1. The third season of the year, or the season between summer and
winter, often called "the fall." Astronomically, it begins in the
northern temperate zone at the autumnal equinox, about September 23,
and ends at the winter solstice, about December 23; but in popular
language, autumn, in America, comprises September, October, and
November.

Note: In England, according to Johnson, autumn popularly comprises
August, September, and October. In the southern hemisphere, the
autumn corresponds to our spring.

2. The harvest or fruits of autumn. Milton.

3. The time of maturity or decline; latter portion; third stage.
Dr. Preston was now entering into the autumn of the duke's favor.
Fuller.
Life's autumn past, I stand on winter's verge. Wordsworth.

AUTUMNAL
Au*tum"nal, a. Etym: [L. auctumnalis, autumnalis: cf. F. automnal.]

1. Of, belonging to, or peculiar to, autumn; as, an autumnal tint;
produced or gathered in autumn; as, autumnal fruits; flowering in
autumn; as, an autumnal plant.
Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks In Vallombrosa.
Milton.

2. Past the middle of life; in the third stage.
An autumnal matron. Hawthorne.
Autumnal equinox, the time when the sun crosses the equator, as it
proceeds southward, or when it passes the ~ point.
 -- ~= point, the point of the equator intersected by the ecliptic,
as the sun proceeds southward; the first point of Libra.
 -- ~= signs, the signs Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius, through
which the sun passes between the ~ equinox and winter solstice.

AUTUNITE
Au"tun*ite, n. [From Autun, France, its locality.] (Min.)

Defn: A lemon-yellow phosphate of uranium and calcium occurring in
tabular crystals with basal cleavage, and in micalike scales. H., 2-
2.5. Sp. gr., 3.05-3.19.

AUXANOMETER
Aux`a*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument to measure the growth of plants. Goodale.

AUXESIS
Aux*e"sis, n. Etym: [NL., Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which a grave and magnificent word is put for the
proper word; amplification; hyperbole.

AUXETIC
Aux*et"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, auxesis; amplifying.

AUXETOPHONE
Aux*e"to*phone, n. [Gr.  that may be increased +  sound, voice.]

Defn: A pneumatic reproducer for a phonograph, controlled by the
recording stylus on the principle of the relay. It produces much
clearer and louder tones than does the ordinary vibrating disk
reproducer.

AUXILIAR
Aux*il"iar, a. Etym: [L. auxiliaris: cf. F. auxiliaire. See
Auxiliary.]

Defn: Auxiliary. [Archaic]
The auxiliar troops and Trojan hosts appear. Pope.

AUXILIAR
Aux*il"iar, n.

Defn: An auxiliary. [Archaic] Milton.

AUXILIARLY
Aux*il"iar*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of help. Harris.

AUXILIARY
Aux*il"ia*ry, a. Etym: [L. auxiliarius, fr. auxilium help, aid, fr.
augere to increase.]

Defn: Conferring aid or help; helping; aiding; assisting; subsidiary;
as auxiliary troops. Auxiliary scales (Mus.), the scales of relative
or attendant keys. See under Attendant, a.
 -- Auxiliary verbs (Gram.). See Auxiliary, n., 3.

AUXILIARY
Aux*il"ia*ry, n.; pl. Auxiliaries (.

1. A helper; an assistant; a confederate in some action or
enterprise.

2. (Mil.) pl.

Defn: Foreign troops in the service of a nation at war; (rarely in
sing.), a member of the allied or subsidiary force.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: A verb which helps to form the voices, modes, and tenses of
other verbs; -- called, also, an auxiliary verb; as, have, be, may,
can, do, must, shall, and will, in English; être and avoir, in
French; avere and essere, in Italian; estar and haber, in Spanish.

4. (Math.)

Defn: A quantity introduced for the purpose of simplifying or
facilitating some operation, as in equations or trigonometrical
formulæ. Math. Dict.

AUXILIATORY
Aux*il"ia*to*ry, a.

Defn: Auxiliary; helping. [Obs.]

AUXOMETER
Aux*om"e*ter, n. [Gr.  to increase + -meter.] (Optics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the magnifying power of a lens or
system of lenses.

AVA
A"va, n.

Defn: Same as Kava. Johnston.

AVADAVAT
Av`a*da*vat", n.

Defn: Same as Amadavat.

AVAIL
A*vail", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Availed (p. pr. & vb. n. Availing.]
Etym: [OE. availen, fr. F. ad) + valoir to be worth, fr. L. valere to
be strong, to be worth. See Valiant.]

1. To turn to the advantage of; to be of service to; to profit; to
benefit; to help; as, artifices will not avail the sinner in the day
of judgment.
O, what avails me now that honor high ! Milton.

2. To promote; to assist. [Obs.] Pope. To avail one's self of, to
make use of; take advantage of.
Then shall they seek to avail themselves of names. Milton.
I have availed myself of the very first opportunity. Dickens.

AVAIL
A*vail", v. i.

Defn: To be of use or advantage; to answer the purpose; to have
strength, force, or efficacy sufficient to accomplish the object; as,
the plea in bar must avail, that is, be sufficient to defeat the
suit; this scheme will not avail; medicines will not avail to check
the disease. "What signs avail " Milton.
Words avail very little with me, young man. Sir W. Scott.

AVAIL
A*vail", n.

1. Profit; advantage toward success; benefit; value; as, labor,
without economy, is of little avail.
The avail of a deathbed repentance. Jer. Taylor.

2. pl.

Defn: Proceeds; as, the avails of a sale by auction.
The avails of their own industry. Stoddard.

Syn.
 -- Use; benefit; utility; profit; service.

AVAIL
A*vail", v. t. & i.

Defn: See Avale, v. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVAILABILITY
A*vail`a*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Availabilities (.

1. The quality of being available; availableness.

Note: The word is sometimes used derogatively in the sense of "mere
availableness," or capability of success without regard to
worthiness.
He was . . . nominated for his availability. Lowell.

2. That which is available.

AVAILABLE
A*vail"a*ble, a.

1. Having sufficient power, force, or efficacy, for the object;
effectual; valid; as, an available plea. [Obs.]
Laws human are available by consent. Hooker.

2. Such as one may avail one's self of; capable of being used for the
accomplishment of a purpose; usable; profitable; advantageous;
convertible into a resource; as, an available measure; an available
candidate.
Struggling to redeem, as he did, the available months and days out of
so many that were unavailable. Carlyle.
Having no available funds with which to pay the calls on new shares.
H. Spenser.

AVAILABLENESS
A*vail"a*ble*ness, n.

1. Competent power; validity; efficacy; as, the availableness of a
title. [Obs.]

2. Quality of being available; capability of being used for the
purpose intended. Sir M. Hale.

AVAILABLY
A*vail"a*bly, adv.

Defn: In an available manner; profitably; advantageously;
efficaciously.

AVAILMENT
A*vail"ment, n.

Defn: Profit; advantage. [Obs.]

AVALANCHE
Av"a*lanche`, n. Etym: [F. avalanche, fr. avaler to descend, to let
down, from aval down, downward; ad) + val, L. vallis, valley. See
Valley.]

1. A large mass or body of snow and ice sliding swiftly down a
mountain side, or falling down a precipice.

2. A fall of earth, rocks, etc., similar to that of an avalanche of
snow or ice.

3. A sudden, great, or irresistible descent or influx of anything.

AVALE
A*vale", v. t. & i. Etym: [F. avaler to descend, to let down. See
Avalanche.]

1. To cause to descend; to lower; to let fall; to doff. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

2. To bring low; to abase. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

3. (v. i.)

Defn: To descend; to fall; to dismount. [Obs.]
And from their sweaty courses did avale. Spenser.

AVANT
A*vant", n. Etym: [For avant-guard. Cf. Avaunt, Van.]

Defn: The front of an army. [Obs.] See Van.

AVANT-COURIER
A*vant"-cou`ri*er, n. Etym: [F., fr. avant before + courrier. See
Avaunt, and Courier.]

Defn: A person dispatched before another person or company, to give
notice of his or their approach.

AVANT-GUARD
A*vant"-guard` (; sq. root277), n. Etym: [F. avant before + E. guard,
F. avant-garde. See Avaunt.]

Defn: The van or advanced body of an army. See Vanguard.

AVARICE
Av"a*rice, n. Etym: [F. avaritia, fr. avarus avaricious, prob. fr. av
to covert, fr. a root av to satiate one's self: cf. Gr. av to satiate
one's self, rejoice, protect.]

1. An excessive or inordinate desire of gain; greediness after
wealth; covetousness; cupidity.
To desire money for its own sake, and in order to hoard it up, is
avarice. Beattie.

2. An inordinate desire for some supposed good.
All are taught an avarice of praise. Goldsmith.

AVARICIOUS
Av`a*ri"cious, a. Etym: [Cf. F. avaricieux.]

Defn: Actuated by avarice; greedy of gain; immoderately desirous of
accumulating property.

Syn.
 -- Greedy; stingy; rapacious; griping; sordid; close.
 -- Avaricious, Covetous, Parsimonious, Penurious, Miserly,
Niggardly. The avaricious eagerly grasp after it at the expense of
others, though not of necessity with a design to save, since a man
may be covetous and yet a spendthrift. The penurious, parsimonious,
and miserly save money by disgraceful self-denial, and the niggardly
by meanness in their dealing with others. We speak of persons as
covetous in getting, avaricious in retaining, parsimonious in
expending, penurious or miserly in modes of living, niggardly in
dispensing.
 -- Av`a*ri"cious*ly, adv -- Av`a*ri"cious*ness, n.

AVAROUS
Av"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. avarus.]

Defn: Avaricious. [Obs.]

AVAST
A*vast", interj. Etym: [Corrupted from D. houd vast hold fast. See
Hold, v. t., and Fast, a.] (Naut.)

Defn: Cease; stop; stay. "Avast heaving." Totten.

AVATAR
Av`a*tar", n. Etym: [Skr. avatâra descent; ava from + root t to
cross, pass over.]

1. (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a man
or an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu.

2. Incarnation; manifestation as an object of worship or admiration.

AVAUNCE
A*vaunce", v. t. & i. Etym: [See Advance.]

Defn: To advance; to profit. Chaucer.

AVAUNT
A*vaunt", interj. Etym: [F. avant forward, fr. L. ab + ante before.
Cf. Avant, Advance.]

Defn: Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalent
to the phrase "Get thee gone."

AVAUNT
A*vaunt", v. t. & i.

1. To advance; to move forward; to elevate. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To depart; to move away. [Obs.] Coverdale.

AVAUNT
A*vaunt", v. t. & i. Etym: [OF. avanter; (L. ad) + vanter. See
Vaunt.]

Defn: To vaunt; to boast. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVAUNT
A*vaunt", n.

Defn: A vaunt; to boast. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVAUNTOUR
A*vaunt"our, n. Etym: [OF. avanteur.]

Defn: A boaster. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVE
A"ve, n. Etym: [L., hail.]

1. An ave Maria.
He repeated Aves and Credos. Macaulay.

2. A reverential salutation.
Their loud applause and aves vehement. Shak.

AVEL
A*vel, v. t. Etym: [L. avellere.]

Defn: To pull away. [Obs.]
Yet are not these parts avelled. Sir T. Browne.

AVELLANE
A*vel"lane, a. Etym: [Cf. It. avellana a filbert, fr. L. Avella or
Abella a city of Campania.] (Her.)

Defn: In the form of four unhusked filberts; as, an avellane cross.

AVE MARIA; AVE MARY
A"ve Ma*ri"a, A"ve Ma"ry.Etym: [From the first words of the Roman
Catholic prayer to the Virgin Mary; L. ave hail, Maria Mary.]

1. A salutation and prayer to the Virgin Mary, as mother of God; --
used in the Roman Catholic church.
To number Ave Maries on his beads. Shak.

2. A particular time (as in Italy, at the ringing of the bells about
half an hour after sunset, and also at early dawn), when the people
repeat the Ave Maria.
Ave Maria ! blessed be the hour ! Byron.

AVENA
A*ve"na, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa);
the oat grasses.

AVENACEOUS
Av`e*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. avenaceus, fr. avena oats.]

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, oats or the oat grasses.

AVENAGE
Av"e*nage, n. Etym: [F. avenage, fr. L. avena oats.] (Old Law)

Defn: A quantity of oats paid by a tenant to a landlord in lieu of
rent. Jacob.

AVENALIN
A*ven"a*lin, n. [L. avena eats.] (Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline globulin, contained in oat kernels, very similar
in composition to excelsin, but different in reactions and
crystalline form.

AVENER
Av"e*ner, n. Etym: [OF. avenier, fr. aveine, avaine, avoine, oats, F.
avoine, L. avena.] (Feud. Law)

Defn: An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide
oats for the horses. [Obs.]

AVENGE
A*venge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Avenged (p. pr. & vb. n. Avenging (
Etym: [OF. avengier; L. ad + vindicare to lay claim to, to avenge,
revenge. See Vengeance.]

1. To take vengeance for; to exact satisfaction for by punishing the
injuring party; to vindicate by inflicting pain or evil on a
wrongdoer.
He will avenge the blood of his servants. Deut. xxxii. 43.
Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered saints, whose bones Lie scattered on
the Alpine mountains cold. Milton.
He had avenged himself on them by havoc such as England had never
before seen. Macaulay.

2. To treat revengefully; to wreak vengeance on. [Obs.]
Thy judgment in avenging thine enemies. Bp. Hall.

Syn.
 -- To Avenge, Revenge. To avenge is to inflict punishment upon evil
doers in behalf of ourselves, or others for whom we act; as, to
avenge one's wrongs; to avenge the injuries of the suffering and
innocent. It is to inflict pain for the sake of vindication, or
retributive justice. To revenge is to inflict pain or injury for the
indulgence of resentful and malicious feelings. The former may at
times be a duty; the latter is one of the worst exhibitions of human
character.
I avenge myself upon another, or I avenge another, or I avenge a
wrong. I revenge only myself, and that upon another. C. J. Smith.

AVENGE
A*venge", v. i.

Defn: To take vengeance. Levit. xix. 18.

AVENGE
A*venge", n.

Defn: Vengeance; revenge. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVENGEANCE
A*venge"ance, n.

Defn: Vengeance. [Obs.]

AVENGEFUL
A*venge"ful, a.

Defn: Vengeful. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVENGEMENT
A*venge"ment, n.

Defn: The inflicting of retributive punishment; satisfaction taken.
[R.] Milton.

AVENGER
A*ven"ger, n.

1. One who avenges or vindicates; as, an avenger of blood.

2. One who takes vengeance. [Obs.] Milton.

AVENGERESS
A*ven"ger*ess, n.

Defn: A female avenger. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVENIOUS
A*ve"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + L. vena a vein.] (Bot.)

Defn: Being without veins or nerves, as the leaves of certain plants.

AVENOR
Av"e*nor, n.

Defn: See Avener. [Obs.]

AVENS
Av"ens, n. Etym: [OF. avence.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet.

AVENTAIL
Av"en*tail, n. Etym: [OF. esventail. Cf. Ventail.]

Defn: The movable front to a helmet; the ventail.

AVENTINE
Av"en*tine, a.

Defn: Pertaining to Mons Aventinus, one of the seven hills on which
Rome stood. Bryant.

AVENTINE
Av"en*tine, n.

Defn: A post of security or defense. [Poetic]
Into the castle's tower, The only Aventine that now is left him.
Beau. & Fl.

AVENTRE
A*ven"tre, v. t.

Defn: To thrust forward (at a venture), as a spear. [Obs.] Spenser.

AVENTURE
A*ven"ture, n. Etym: [See Adventure, n.]

1. Accident; chance; adventure. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. (Old Law)

Defn: A mischance causing a person's death without felony, as by
drowning, or falling into the fire.

AVENTURINE
A*ven"tu*rine, n. Etym: [F. aventurine: cf. It. avventurino.]

1. A kind of glass, containing gold-colored spangles. It was produced
in the first place by the accidental (par aventure) dropping of some
brass filings into a pot of melted glass.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of translucent quartz, spangled throughout with
scales of yellow mica. ~= feldspar, a variety of oligoclase with
internal firelike reflections due to the presence of minute crystals,
probably of hematite; sunstone.

AVENUE
Av"e*nue, n. Etym: [F. avenue, fr. avenir to come to, L. advenire.
See Advene.]

1. A way or opening for entrance into a place; a passage by which a
place may by reached; a way of approach or of exit. "The avenues
leading to the city by land." Macaulay.
On every side were expanding new avenues of inquiry. Milman.

2. The principal walk or approach to a house which is withdrawn from
the road, especially, such approach bordered on each side by trees;
any broad passageway thus bordered.
An avenue of tall elms and branching chestnuts. W. Black.

3. A broad street; as, the Fifth Avenue in New York.

AVER
A"ver, n. Etym: [OF. aver domestic animal, whence LL. averia, pl.
cattle. See Habit, and cf. Average.]

Defn: A work horse, or working ox. [Obs. or Dial. Eng.]

AVER
A*ver", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Averred (p. pr. & vb. n. Averring.] Etym:
[F. avérer, LL. adverare, averare; L. ad + versus true. See Verity.]

1. To assert, or prove, the truth of. [Obs.]

2. (Law)

Defn: To avouch or verify; to offer to verify; to prove or justify.
See Averment.

3. To affirm with confidence; to declare in a positive manner, as in
confidence of asserting the truth.
It is sufficient that the very fact hath its foundation in truth, as
I do seriously aver is the case. Fielding.
Then all averred I had killed the bird. Coleridge.

Syn.
 -- To assert; affirm; asseverate. See Affirm.

AVERAGE
Av"er*age, n. Etym: [OF. average, LL. averagium, prob. fr. OF. aver,
F. avoir, property, horses, cattle, etc.; prop. infin., to have, from
L. habere to have. Cf. F. avérage small cattle, and avarie (perh. of
different origin) damage to ship or cargo, port dues. The first
meaning was peAver, n., Avercorn, Averpenny.]

1. (OLd Eng. Law)

Defn: That service which a tenant owed his lord, to be done by the
work beasts of the tenant, as the carriage of wheat, turf, etc.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. avarie damage to ship or cargo.] (Com.)
(a) A tariff or duty on goods, etc. [Obs.]
(b) Any charge in addition to the regular charge for freight of goods
shipped.
(c) A contribution to a loss or charge which has been imposed upon
one of several for the general benefit; damage done by sea perils.
(d) The equitable and proportionate distribution of loss or expense
among all interested. General average, a contribution made, by all
parties concerned in a sea adventure, toward a loss occasioned by the
voluntary sacrifice of the property of some of the parties in
interest for the benefit of all. It is called general average,
because it falls upon the gross amount of ship, cargo, and freight at
risk and saved by the sacrifice. Kent.
 -- Particular average signifies the damage or partial loss happening
to the ship, or cargo, or freight, in consequence of some fortuitous
or unavoidable accident; and it is borne by the individual owners of
the articles damaged, or by their insurers.
 -- Petty averages are sundry small charges, which occur regularly,
and are necessarily defrayed by the master in the usual course of a
voyage; such as port charges, common pilotage, and the like, which
formerly were, and in some cases still are, borne partly by the ship
and partly by the cargo. In the clause commonly found in bills of
lading, "primage and average accustomed," average means a kind of
composition established by usage for such charges, which were
formerly assessed by way of average. Arnould. Abbott. Phillips.

3. A mean proportion, medial sum or quantity, made out of unequal
sums or quantities; an arithmetical mean. Thus, if A loses 5 dollars,
B 9, and C 16, the sum is 30, and the average 10.

4. Any medial estimate or general statement derived from a comparison
of diverse specific cases; a medium or usual size, quantity, quality,
rate, etc. "The average of sensations." Paley.

5. pl.

Defn: In the English corn trade, the medial price of the several
kinds of grain in the principal corn markets. On an average, taking
the mean of unequal numbers or quantities.

AVERAGE
Av"er*age, a.

1. Pertaining to an average or mean; medial; containing a mean
proportion; of a mean size, quality, ability, etc.; ordinary; usual;
as, an average rate of profit; an average amount of rain; the average
Englishman; beings of the average stamp.

2. According to the laws of averages; as, the loss must be made good
by average contribution.

AVERAGE
Av"er*age, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Averaged (p. pr. & vb. n. Averaging.]

1. To find the mean of, when sums or quantities are unequal; to
reduce to a mean.

2. To divide among a number, according to a given proportion; as, to
average a loss.

3. To do, accomplish, get, etc., on an average.

AVERAGE
Av"er*age, v. i.

Defn: To form, or exist in, a mean or medial sum or quantity; to
amount to, or to be, on an ~; as, the losses of the owners will
average twenty five dollars each; these spars average ten feet in
length.

AVERCORN
A"ver*corn`, n. Etym: [Aver,n.+ corn.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: A reserved rent in corn, formerly paid to religious houses by
their tenants or farmers. Kennet.

AVERMENT
A*ver"ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. averement, LL. averamentum. See Aver,
v. t.]

1. The act of averring, or that which is averred; affirmation;
positive assertion.
Signally has this averment received illustration in the course of
recent events. I. Taylor.

2. Verification; establishment by evidence. Bacon.

3. (Law)

Defn: A positive statement of facts; an allegation; an offer to
justify or prove what is alleged.

Note: In any stage of pleadings, when either party advances new
matter, he avers it to be true, by using this form of words: "and
this he is ready to verify." This was formerly called an averment. It
modern pleading, it is termed a verification. Blackstone.

AVERNAL; AVERNIAN
A*ver"nal, A*ver"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Avernus, a lake of Campania, in Italy,
famous for its poisonous vapors, which ancient writers fancied were
so malignant as to kill birds flying over it. It was represented by
the poets to be connected with the infernal regions.

AVERPENNY
Av"er*pen`ny, n. Etym: [Aver,n.+ penny.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: Money paid by a tenant in lieu of the service of average.

AVERROISM
A*ver"ro*ism, n.

Defn: The tenets of the Averroists.

AVERROIST
A*ver"ro*ist, n.

Defn: One of a sect of peripatetic philosophers, who appeared in
Italy before the restoration of learning; so denominated from
Averroes, or Averrhoes, a celebrated Arabian philosopher. He held the
doctrine of monopsychism.

AVERRUNCATE
Av`er*run"cate, v. t. Etym: [L. averruncare to avert; a, ab, off +
verruncare to turn; formerly derived from ab and eruncare to root
out. Cf. Aberuncate.]

1. To avert; to ward off. [Obs.] Hudibras.

2. To root up. [Obs.] Johnson.

AVERRUNCATION
Av`er*run*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. averroncation.]

1. The act of averting. [Obs.]

2. Eradication. [R.] De Quincey.

AVERRUNCATOR
Av`er*run*ca"tor, n. Etym: [Cf. Aberuncator.]

Defn: An instrument for pruning trees, consisting of two blades, or a
blade and a hook, fixed on the end of a long rod.

AVERSATION
Av`er*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. aversatio, fr. aversari to turn away, v.
intens. of avertere. See Avert.]

Defn: A turning from with dislike; aversion. [Obs.or Archaic]
Some men have a natural aversation to some vices or virtues, and a
natural affection to others. Jer. Taylor.

AVERSE
A*verse", a. Etym: [L. aversus, p. p. of avertere. See Avert.]

1. Turned away or backward. [Obs.]
The tracks averse a lying notice gave, And led the searcher backward
from the cave. Dryden.

2. Having a repugnance or opposition of mind; disliking; disinclined;
unwilling; reluctant.
Averse alike to flatter, or offend. Pope.
Men who were averse to the life of camps. Macaulay.
Pass by securely as men averse from war. Micah ii. 8.

Note: The prevailing usage now is to employ to after averse and its
derivatives rather than from, as was formerly the usage. In this the
word is in agreement with its kindred terms, hatred, dislike,
dissimilar, contrary, repugnant, etc., expressing a relation or an
affection of the mind to an object.

Syn.
 -- Averse, Reluctant, Adverse. Averse expresses an habitual, though
not of necessity a very strong, dislike; as, averse to active
pursuits; averse to study. Reluctant, a term of the of the will,
implies an internal struggle as to making some sacrifice of interest
or feeling; as, reluctant to yield; reluctant to make the necessary
arrangements; a reluctant will or consent. Adverse denotes active
opposition or hostility; as, adverse interests; adverse feelings,
plans, or movements; the adverse party.

AVERSE
A*verse", v. t. & i.

Defn: To turn away. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

AVERSELY
A*verse"ly, adv.

1. Backward; in a backward direction; as, emitted aversely.

2. With repugnance or aversion; unwillingly.

AVERSENESS
A*verse"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being averse; opposition of mind; unwillingness.

AVERSION
A*ver"sion, n. Etym: [L. aversio: cf. F. aversion. See Avert.]

1. A turning away. [Obs.]
Adhesion to vice and aversion from goodness. Bp. Atterbury.

2. Opposition or repugnance of mind; fixed dislike; antipathy;
disinclination; reluctance.
Mutual aversion of races. Prescott.
His rapacity had made him an object of general aversion. Macaulay.

Note: It is now generally followed by to before the object. [See
Averse.] Sometimes towards and for are found; from is obsolete.
A freeholder is bred with an aversion to subjection. Addison.
His aversion towards the house of York. Bacon.
It is not difficult for a man to see that a person has conceived an
aversion for him. Spectator.
The Khasias . . . have an aversion to milk. J. D. Hooker.

3. The object of dislike or repugnance.
Pain their aversion, pleasure their desire. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Antipathy; dislike; repugnance; disgust. See Dislike.

AVERT
A*vert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Averted; p. pr. & vb. n. Averting.]
Etym: [L. avertere; a, ab + vertere to turn: cf. OF. avertir. See
Verse, n.]

Defn: To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object;
to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how can
the danger be averted "To avert his ire." Milton.
When atheists and profane persons do hear of so many discordant and
contrary opinions in religion, it doth avert them from the church.
Bacon.
Till ardent prayer averts the public woe. Prior.

AVERT
A*vert", v. i.

Defn: To turn away. [Archaic]
Cold and averting from our neighbor's good. Thomson.

AVERTED
A*vert"ed, a.

Defn: Turned away, esp. as an expression of feeling; also, offended;
unpropitious.
Who scornful pass it with averted eye. Keble.

AVERTER
A*vert"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, averts.

AVERTIBLE
A*vert"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being averted; preventable.

AVERTIMENT
A*ver"ti*ment, n.

Defn: Advertisement. [Obs.]

AVES
A"ves, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of avis bird.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.

Note: Aves, or birds, have a complete double circulation, oviparous,
reproduction, front limbs peculiarly modified as wings; and they bear
feathers. All existing birds have a horny beak, without teeth; but
some Mesozoic fossil birds (Odontornithes) had conical teeth inserted
in both jaws. The principal groups are: Carinatæ, including all
existing flying birds; Ratitæ, including the ostrich and allies, the
apteryx, and the extinct moas; Odontornithes, or fossil birds with
teeth.

Note: The ordinary birds are classified largely by the structure of
the beak and feet, which are in direct relating to their habits. See
Beak, Bird, Odontonithes.

AVESTA
A*ves"ta, n.

Defn: The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta.

AVESTAN
A*ves"tan, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Avesta or the language of the Avesta. -
-n.

Defn: The language of the Avesta; -- less properly called Zend.

AVIADO
A`vi*a"do, n. [Sp.]

Defn: One who works a mine with means provided by another. [Sp. Amer.
& Southwestern U. S.]

AVIAN
A"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or instrument to birds.

AVIARY
A"vi*a*ry, n.; pl. Aviaries. Etym: [L. aviarium, fr. aviarius
pertaining to birds, fr. avis bird, akin to Gr, vi.]

Defn: A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping
birds confined; a bird house.
Lincolnshire may be termed the aviary of England. Fuller.

AVIATE
A"vi*ate, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Aviated; p. pr. & vb. n. Aviating.]

Defn: To fly, or navigate the air, in an aëroplane or heavier-than-
air flying machine. [Colloq.]

AVIATION
A`vi*a"tion, n.

Defn: The art or science of flying.

AVIATOR
A"vi*a`tor, n.
(a) An experimenter in aviation.
(b) A flying machine.

AVIATRESS; AVIATRIX
A"vi*a`tress, A`vi*a"trix, n.

Defn: A woman aviator.

AVICULA
A*vic"u*la, n. Etym: [L., small bird.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of marine bivalves, having a pearly interior, allied to
the pearl oyster; -- so called from a supposed resemblance of the
typical species to a bird.

AVICULAR
A*vic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. avicula a small bird, dim. of avis bird.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a bird or to birds.

AVICULARIA
A*vic`u*la"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Avicular.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See prehensile processes on the cells of some Bryozoa, often
having the shape of a bird's bill.

AVICULTURE
A"vi*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. avis bird + cultura culture.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Rearing and care of birds.

AVID
Av"id, a. Etym: [L. avidus, fr. av to long: cf. F. avide. See
Avarice.]

Defn: Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy. "Avid of gold, yet greedier
of renown." Southey.

AVIDIOUS
A*vid"i*ous, a.

Defn: Avid.

AVIDIOUSLY
A*vid"i*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: Eagerly; greedily.

AVIDITY
A*vid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. aviditas, fr. avidus: cf. F. avidité. See
Avid.]

Defn: Greediness; strong appetite; eagerness; intenseness of desire;
as, to eat with avidity.
His books were received and read with avidity. Milward.

AVIE
A*vie", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + vie.]

Defn: Emulously. [Obs.]

AVIETTE
A`vi*ette", n.

Defn: A heavier-than-air flying machine in which the motive power is
furnished solely by the aviator.

AVIFAUNA
A`vi*fau"na, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. avis bird + E. fauna.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The birds, or all the kinds of birds, inhabiting a region.

AVIGATO
Av`i*ga"to, n.

Defn: See Avocado.

AVIGNON BERRY
A`vignon" ber"ry. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of the Rhamnus infectorius, eand of other species of
the same genus; -- so called from the city of Avignon, in France. It
is used by dyers and painters for coloring yellow. Called also French
berry.

AVILE
A*vile", v. t. Etym: [OF. aviler, F. avilir; a (L. ad) + vil vile.
See Vile.]

Defn: To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate. [Obs.]
Want makes us know the price of what we avile. B. Jonson.

AVIS
A*vis", n. Etym: [F. avis. See Advice.]

Defn: Advice; opinion; deliberation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVISE
A*vise", v. t. Etym: [F. aviser. See Advise, v. t.]

1. To look at; to view; to think of. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To advise; to counsel. [Obs.] Shak. To avise one's self, to
consider with one's self, to reflect, to deliberate. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Now therefore, if thou wilt enriched be, Avise thee well, and change
thy willful mood. Spenser.

AVISE
A*vise", v. i.

Defn: To consider; to reflect. [Obs.]

AVISEFUL
A*vise"ful, a.

Defn: Watchful; circumspect. [Obs.]
With sharp, aviseful eye. Spenser.

AVISELY
A*vise"ly, adv.

Defn: Advisedly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVISEMENT
A*vise"ment, n.

Defn: Advisement; observation; deliberation. [Obs.]

AVISION
A*vi"sion, n.

Defn: Vision. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVISO
A*vi"so, n. Etym: [Sp.]

1. Information; advice.

2. An advice boat, or dispatch boat.

AVOCADO
Av`o*ca"do, n. Etym: [Corrupted from the Mexican ahuacatl: cf. Sp.
aguacate, F. aguacaté, avocat, G. avogadobaum.]

Defn: The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropical
America. It is about the size and shape of a large pear; -- called
also avocado pear, alligator pear, midshipman's butter.

AVOCAT
Av`o*cat, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An advocate.

AVOCATE
Av"o*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. avocatus, p. p. of avocare; a, ab + vocare
to call. Cf. Avoke, and see Vocal, a.]

Defn: To call off or away; to withdraw; to transfer to another
tribunal. [Obs. or Archaic]
One who avocateth his mind from other occupations. Barrow.
He, at last, . . . avocated the cause to Rome. Robertson.

AVOCATION
Av`o*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. avocatio.]

1. A calling away; a diversion. [Obs. or Archaic]
Impulses to duty, and powerful avocations from sin. South.

2. That which calls one away from one's regular employment or
vocation.
Heaven is his vocation, and therefore he counts earthly employments
avocations. Fuller.
By the secular cares and avocations which accompany marriage the
clergy have been furnished with skill in common life. Atterbury.

Note: In this sense the word is applied to the smaller affairs of
life, or occasional calls which summon a person to leave his ordinary
or principal business. Avocation (in the singular) for vocation is
usually avoided by good writers.

3. pl.

Defn: Pursuits; duties; affairs which occupy one's time; usual
employment; vocation.
There are professions, among the men, no more favorable to these
studies than the common avocations of women. Richardson.
In a few hours, above thirty thousand men left his standard, and
returned to their ordinary avocations. Macaulay.
An irregularity and instability of purpose, which makes them choose
the wandering avocations of a shepherd, rather than the more fixed
pursuits of agriculture. Buckle.

AVOCATIVE
A*vo"ca*tive, a.

Defn: Calling off. [Obs.]

AVOCATIVE
A*vo"ca*tive, n.

Defn: That which calls aside; a dissuasive.

AVOCET; AVOSET
Av"o*cet, Av"o*set, n. Etym: [F. avocette: cf. It. avosetta, Sp.
avoceta.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A grallatorial bird, of the genus Recurvirostra; the scooper.
The bill is long and bend upward toward the tip. The American species
is R. Americana. [Written also avocette.]

AVOID
A*void" (, v. t. [p. & p. p. Avoided; p. pr. & vb. n. Avoiding.]
Etym: [OF. esvuidier, es (L. ex) + vuidier, voidier, to empty. See
Void, a.]

1. To empty. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. To emit or throw out; to void; as, to avoid excretions. [Obs.] Sir
T. Browne.

3. To quit or evacuate; to withdraw from. [Obs.]
Six of us only stayed, and the rest avoided the room. Bacon.

4. To make void; to annul or vacate; to refute.
How can these grants of the king's be avoided Spenser.

5. To keep away from; to keep clear of; to endeavor no to meet; to
shun; to abstain from; as, to avoid the company of gamesters.
What need a man forestall his date of grief. And run to meet what he
would most avoid Milton.
He carefully avoided every act which could goad them into open
hostility. Macaulay.

6. To get rid of. [Obs.] Shak.

7. (Pleading)

Defn: To defeat or evade; to invalidate. Thus, in a replication, the
plaintiff may deny the defendant's plea, or confess it, and avoid it
by stating new matter. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- To escape; elude; evade; eschew.
 -- To Avoid, Shun. Avoid in its commonest sense means, to keep clear
of, an extension of the meaning, to withdraw one's self from. It
denotes care taken not to come near or in contact; as, to avoid
certain persons or places. Shun is a stronger term, implying more
prominently the idea of intention. The words may, however, in many
cases be interchanged.
No man can pray from his heart to be kept from temptation, if the
take no care of himself to avoid it. Mason.
So Chanticleer, who never saw a fox, Yet shunned him as a sailor
shuns the rocks. Dryden.

AVOID
A*void", v. i.

1. To retire; to withdraw. [Obs.]
David avoided out of his presence. 1 Sam. xviii. 11.

2. (Law)

Defn: To become void or vacant. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

AVOIDABLE
A*void"a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being vacated; liable to be annulled or made invalid;
voidable.
The charters were not avoidable for the king's nonage. Hale.

2. Capable of being avoided, shunned, or escaped.

AVOIDANCE
A*void"ance, n.

1. The act of annulling; annulment.

2. The act of becoming vacant, or the state of being vacant; --
specifically used for the state of a benefice becoming void by the
death, deprivation, or resignation of the incumbent.
Wolsey, . . . on every avoidance of St. Peter's chair, was sitting
down therein, when suddenly some one or other clapped in before him.
Fuller.

3. A dismissing or a quitting; removal; withdrawal.

4. The act of avoiding or shunning; keeping clear of. "The avoidance
of pain." Beattie.

5. The courts by which anything is carried off.
Avoidances and drainings of water. Bacon.

AVOIDER
A*void"er, n.

1. The person who carries anything away, or the vessel in which
things are carried away. Johnson.

2. One who avoids, shuns, or escapes.

AVOIDLESS
A*void"less, a.

Defn: Unavoidable; inevitable.

AVOIRDUPOIS
Av`oir*du*pois", n. & a. Etym: [OE. aver de peis, goods of weight,
where peis is fr. OF. peis weight, F. poids, L. pensum. See Aver, n.,
and Poise, n.]

1. Goods sold by weight. [Obs.]

2. Avoirdupois weight.

3. Weight; heaviness; as, a woman of much avoirdupois. [Colloq.]
Avoirdupois weight, a system of weights by which coarser commodities
are weighed, such as hay, grain, butter, sugar, tea.

Note: The standard Avoirdupois pound of the United States is
equivalent to the weight of 27.7015 cubic inches of distilled water
at 62º Fahrenheit, the barometer being at 30 inches, and the water
weighed in the air with brass weights. In this system of weights 16
drams make 1 ounce, 16 ounces 1 pound, 25 pounds 1 quarter, 4
quarters 1 hundred weight, and 20 hundred weight 1 ton. The above
pound contains 7,000 grains, or 453.54 grams, so that 1 pound
avoirdupois is equivalent to 1 31-144 pounds troy. (See Troy weight.)
Formerly, a hundred weight was reckoned at 112 pounds, the ton being
2,240 pounds (sometimes called a long ton).

AVOKE
A*voke", v. t. Etym: [Cf. Avocate.]

Defn: To call from or back again. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.

AVOLATE
Av"o*late, v. i. Etym: [L. avolare; a (ab) + volare to fly.]

Defn: To fly away; to escape; to exhale. [Obs.]

AVOLATION
Av`o*la"tion, n. Etym: [LL. avolatio.]

Defn: The act of flying; flight; evaporation. [Obs.]

AVOSET
Av"o*set, n.

Defn: Same as Avocet.

AVOUCH
A*vouch", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Avouched (p. pr. & vb. n. Avouching.]
Etym: [OF. avochier, LL. advocare to recognize the existence of a
thing, to advocate, fr. L. advocare to call to; ad + vocare to call.
Cf. Avow to declare, Advocate, and see Vouch, v. t.]

1. To appeal to; to cite or claim as authority. [Obs.]
They avouch many successions of authorities. Coke.

2. To maintain a just or true; to vouch for.
We might be disposed to question its authencity, it if were not
avouched by the full evidence. Milman.

3. To declare or assert positively and as matter of fact; to affirm
openly.
If this which he avouches does appear. Shak.
Such antiquities could have been avouched for the Irish. Spenser.

4. To acknowledge deliberately; to admit; to confess; to sanction.
Thou hast avouched the Lord this day to be thy God. Deut. xxvi. 17.

AVOUCH
A*vouch", n.

Defn: Evidence; declaration. [Obs.]
The sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes. Shak.

AVOUCHABLE
A*vouch"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being avouched.

AVOUCHER
A*vouch"er, n.

Defn: One who avouches.

AVOUCHMENT
A*vouch"ment, n.

Defn: The act of avouching; positive declaration. [Obs.] Milton.

AVOUTRER
A*vou"trer, n.

Defn: See Advoutrer. [Obs.]

AVOUTRIE
A*vou"trie, n. Etym: [OF.]

Defn: Adultery. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AVOW
A*vow", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Avowed (p. pr. & vb. n. Avowing.] Etym:
[F. avouver, fr. L. advocare to call to (whence the meanings, to call
upon as superior; recognize as lord, own, confess); ad + vocare to
call. See Advocate, Avouch.]

1. To declare openly, as something believed to be right; to own or
acknowledge frankly; as, a man avows his principles or his crimes.
Which I to be the of Israel's God Avow, and challenge Dagon to the
test. Milton.

2. (Law)

Defn: To acknowledge and justify, as an act done. See Avowry.
Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- To acknowledge; own; confess. See Confess.

AVOW
A*vow", n, Etym: [Cf. F. aveu.]

Defn: Avowal. [Obs.] Dryden.

AVOW
A*vow", v. t. & i. Etym: [OF. avouer, fr. LL. votare to vow, fr. L.
votun. See Vote, n.]

Defn: To bind, or to devote, by a vow. [Obs.] Wyclif.

AVOW
A*vow", n.

Defn: A vow or determination. [Archaic]

AVOWABLE
A*vow"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being avowed, or openly acknowledged, with
confidence. Donne.

AVOWAL
A*vow"al, n.

Defn: An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal of
such principles. Hume.

AVOWANCE
A*vow"ance, n.

1. Act of avowing; avowal.

2. Upholding; defense; vindication. [Obs.]
Can my avowance of king-murdering be collected from anything here
written by me Fuller.

AVOWANT
A*vow"ant, n. (Law)

Defn: The defendant in replevin, who avows the distress of the goods,
and justifies the taking. Cowell.

AVOWED
A*vowed", a.

Defn: Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted.
 -- A*vow"ed*ly (, adv.

AVOWEE
A*vow`ee", n. Etym: [F. avoué. Cf. Advowee, Advocate, n.]

Defn: The person who has a right to present to a benefice; the
patron; an advowee. See Advowson.

AVOWER
A*vow"er, n.

Defn: One who avows or asserts.

AVOWRY
A*vow"ry, n. Etym: [OE. avouerie protection, authority, OF. avouerie.
See Avow to declare.]

1. An advocate; a patron; a patron saint. [Obs.]
Let God alone be our avowry. Latimer.

2. The act of the distrainer of goods, who, in an action of replevin,
avows and justifies the taking in his own right. Blackstone.

Note: When an action of replevin is brought, the distrainer either
makes avowry, that is, avours taking the distress in his own right,
or the right of his wife, and states the reason if it, as for arrears
of rent, damage done, or the like; or makes cognizance, that is,
acknowledges the taking, but justifies in an another's right, as his
bailiff or servant.

AVOWTRY
A*vow"try, v. t.

Defn: Adultery. See Advoutry.

AVOYER
A*voy"er, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of
Switzerland. [Obs.]

AVULSE
A*vulse", v. t. Etym: [L. avulsus, p. p. of avellere to tear off; a
(ab) + vellere to pluck.]

Defn: To pluck or pull off. Shenstone.

AVULSION
A*vul"sion, n. Etym: [L. avulsio.]

1. A tearing asunder; a forcible separation.
The avulsion of two polished superficies. Locke.

2. A fragment torn off. J. Barlow.

3. (Law)

Defn: The sudden removal of lands or soil from the estate of one man
to that of another by an inundation or a current, or by a sudden
change in the course of a river by which a part of the estate of one
man is cut off and joined to the estate of another. The property in
the part thus separated, or cut off, continues in the original owner.
Wharton. Burrill.

AVUNCULAR
A*vun"cu*lar, a. Etym: [L. avunculus uncle.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to an uncle.
In these rare instances, the law of pedigree, whether direct or
avuncular, gives way. I. Taylor.

AWAIT
A*wait", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Awaited; p. pr. & vb. n. Awaiting.]
Etym: [OF. awaitier, agaitier; (L. ad) + waitier, gaitier to watch,
F. guetter. See Wait.]

1. To watch for; to look out for. [Obs.]

2. To wait on, serve, or attend. [Obs.]

3. To wait for; to stay for; to expect. See Expect.
Betwixt these rocky pillars Gabriel sat, Chief of the angelic guards,
awaiting night. Milton.

4. To be in store for; to be ready or in waiting for; as, a glorious
reward awaits the good.
O Eve, some farther change awaits us night. Milton.

AWAIT
A*wait", v. i.

1. To watch. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To wait (on or upon). [Obs.]

3. To wait; to stay in waiting. Darwin.

AWAIT
A*wait", n.

Defn: A waiting for; ambush; watch; watching; heed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AWAKE
A*wake", v. t. [imp. Awoke, Awaked (; p. p. Awaked; (Obs.) Awaken,
Awoken; p. pr. & vb. n. Awaking. The form Awoke is sometimes used as
a p. p.] Etym: [AS. awæcnan, v. i. (imp. aw), and awacian, v. i.
(imp. awacode). See Awaken, Wake.]

1. To rouse from sleep.; to wake; to awaken.
Where morning's earliest ray . . . awake her. Tennyson.
And his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us;
we perish. Matt. viii. 25.

2. To rouse from a state resembling sleep, as from death, stupidity.,
or inaction; to put into action; to give new life to; to stir up; as,
to awake the dead; to awake the dormant faculties.
I was soon awaked from this disagreeable reverie. Goldsmith.
It way awake my bounty further. Shak.
No sunny gleam awakes the trees. Keble.

AWAKE
A*wake", v. i.

Defn: To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep;
and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction or
death.
The national spirit again awoke. Freeman.
Awake to righteousness, and sin not. 1 Cor. xv. 34.

AWAKE
A*wake", a. Etym: [From awaken, old p. p. of awake.]

Defn: Not sleeping or lethargic; roused from sleep; in a state of
vigilance or action.
Before whom awake I stood. Milton.
She still beheld, Now wide awake, the vision of her sleep. Keats.
He was awake to the danger. Froude.

AWAKEN
A*wak"en, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Awakened (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Awakening.] Etym: [OE. awakenen, awaknen, AS. awæcnan, awæcnian, v.
i.; pref. on- + wæcnan to wake. Cf. Awake, v. t.]

Defn: To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake.
[He] is dispatched Already to awaken whom thou nam'st. Cowper.
Their consciences are thoroughly awakened. Tillotson.

Syn.
 -- To arouse; excite; stir up; call forth.

AWAKENER
A*wak"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, awakens.

AWAKENING
A*wak"en*ing, a.

Defn: Rousing from sleep, in a natural or a figurative sense; rousing
into activity; exciting; as, the awakening city; an awakening
discourse; the awakening dawn.
 -- A*wak"en*ing*ly, adv.

AWAKENING
A*wak"en*ing, n.

Defn: The act of awaking, or ceasing to sleep. Specifically: A
revival of religion, or more general attention to religious matters
than usual.

AWAKENMENT
A*wak"en*ment, n.

Defn: An awakening. [R.]

AWANTING
A*want"ing, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + wanting.]

Defn: Missing; wanting. [Prov. Scot. & Eng.] Sir W. Hamilton.

AWARD
A*ward", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Awarded; p. pr. & vb. n. Awarding.]
Etym: [OF. eswarder to look at, consider, decide, judge; es (L. ex) +
warder, garder, to observe, take heed, keep, fr. OHG. wart to watch,
guard. See Ward.]

Defn: To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign or
apportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; to
adjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant.
To review The wrongful sentence, and award a new. Dryden.

AWARD
A*ward", v. i.

Defn: To determine; to make an ~.

AWARD
A*ward", n. Etym: [Cf. OF. award, awart, esgart. See Award, v. t.]

1. A judgment, sentence, or final decision. Specifically: The
decision of arbitrators in a case submitted."Impatient for the
award." Cowper.
An award had been given against. Gilpin.

2. The paper containing the decision of arbitrators; that which is
warded. Bouvier.

AWARDER
A*ward"er, n.

Defn: One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicial
determination; a judge.

AWARE
A*ware", a. Etym: [OE. iwar, AS. gewær, fr. wær wary. The pref. ge-
orig. meant together, completely. Wary.]

1. Watchful; vigilant or on one's guard against danger or difficulty.

2. Apprised; informed; cognizant; conscious; as, he was aware of the
enemy's designs.
Aware of nothing arduous in a task They never undertook. Cowper.

AWARN
A*warn", v. t. Etym: [Pref. a- + warn, AS. gewarnian. See Warn, v.
t.]

Defn: To warn. [Obs.] Spenser.

AWASH
A*wash", a. Etym: [Pref. a- + wash.]

Defn: Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip of
shore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface of
the water, so that the waves break over it.

AWAY
A*way", adv. Etym: [AS. aweg, anweg, onweg; on on + weg way.]

1. From a place; hence.
The sound is going away. Shak.
Have me away, for I am sore wounded. 2 Chron. xxxv. 23.

2. Absent; gone; at a distance; as, the master is away from home.

3. Aside; off; in another direction.
The axis of rotation is inclined away from the sun. Lockyer.

4. From a state or condition of being; out of existence.
Be near me when I fade away. Tennyson.

5. By ellipsis of the verb, equivalent to an imperative: Go or come
~; begone; take ~.
And the Lord said . . . Away, get thee down. Exod. xix. 24.

6. On; in continuance; without intermission or delay; as, sing away.
[Colloq.]

Note: It is much used in phrases signifying moving or going from; as,
go away, run away, etc.; all signifying departure, or separation to a
distance. Sometimes without the verb; as, whither away so fast "Love
hath wings, and will away." Waller. It serves to modify the sense of
certain verbs by adding that of removal, loss, parting with, etc.;
as, to throw away; to trifle away; to squander away, etc. Sometimes
it has merely an intensive force; as, to blaze away. Away with, bear,
abide. [Obs. or Archaic] "The calling of assemblies, I can not away
with." (Isa. i. 13
), i. e., "I can not bear or endure [it]." -- Away with one,
signifies, take him away. "Away with, crucify him." John xix. 15.
 -- To make away with. (a) To kill or destroy. (b) To carry off.

AWAY-GOING
A*way"-go"ing, a. (Law)

Defn: Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe until
after its expiration; -- said of crops. Wharton.

AWAYWARD
A*way"ward, adv.

Defn: Turned away; away. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AWE
Awe, n. Etym: [OE. a, aghe, fr. Icel. agi; akin to AS. ege, , Goth.
agis, Dan. ave chastisement, fear, Gr. ail. Ugly.]

1. Dread; great fear mingled with respect. [Obs. or Obsolescent]
His frown was full of terror, and his voice Shook the delinquent with
such fits of awe. Cowper.

2. The emotion inspired by something dreadful and sublime; an
undefined sense of the dreadful and the sublime; reverential fear, or
solemn wonder; profound reverence.
There is an awe in mortals' joy, A deep mysterious fear. Keble.
To tame the pride of that power which held the Continent in awe.
Macaulay.
The solitude of the desert, or the loftiness of the mountain, may
fill the mind with awe -- the sense of our own littleness in some
greater presence or power. C. J. Smith.
To stand in awe of, to fear greatly; to reverence profoundly.

Syn.
 -- See Reverence.

AWE
Awe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Awed (p. pr. & vb. n. Awing.]

Defn: To strike with fear and reverence; to inspire with awe; to
control by inspiring dread.
That same eye whose bend doth awe the world. Shak.
His solemn and pathetic exhortation awed and melted the bystanders.
Macaulay.

AWEARIED
A*wea"ried, p. p.

Defn: Wearied. [Poetic]

AWEARY
A*wea"ry, a. Etym: [Pref. a- + weary.]

Defn: Weary. [Poetic] "I begin to be aweary of thee." Shak.

AWEATHER
A*weath"er, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + weather.] (Naut.)

Defn: On the weather side, or toward the wind; in the direction from
which the wind blows; -- opposed to alee; as, helm aweather ! Totten.

AWEIGH
A*weigh", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + weigh.] (Naut.)

Defn: Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly;
atrip; -- said of the anchor. Totten.

AWELESS
Awe"less, a.

Defn: See Awless.

AWESOME
Awe"some, a.

1. Causing awe; appalling; awful; as, an awesome sight. Wright.

2. Expressive of awe or terror.
An awesome glance up at the auld castle. Sir W. Scott.

AWESOMENESS
Awe"some*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being awesome.

AWE-STRICKEN
Awe"-strick`en, a.

Defn: Awe-struck.

AWE-STRUCK
Awe"-struck`, a.

Defn: Struck with awe. Milton.

AWFUL
Aw"ful, a.

1. Oppressing with fear or horror; appalling; terrible; as, an awful
scene. "The hour of Nature's awful throes." Hemans.

2. Inspiring awe; filling with profound reverence, or with fear and
admiration; fitted to inspire reverential fear; profoundly
impressive.
Heaven's awful Monarch. Milton.

3. Struck or filled with awe; terror-stricken. [Obs.]
A weak and awful reverence for antiquity. I. Watts.

4. Worshipful; reverential; law-abiding. [Obs.]
Thrust from the company of awful men. Shak.

5. Frightful; exceedingly bad; great; -- applied intensively; as, an
awful bonnet; an awful boaster. [Slang]

Syn.
 -- See Frightful.

AWFULLY
Aw"ful*ly, adv.

1. In an awful manner; in a manner to fill with terror or awe;
fearfully; reverently.

2. Very; excessively. [Slang]

AWFULNESS
Aw"ful*ness, n.

1. The quality of striking with awe, or with reverence; dreadfulness;
solemnity; as, the awfulness of this sacred place.
The awfulness of grandeur. Johnson.

2. The state of being struck with awe; a spirit of solemnity;
profound reverence. [Obs.]
Producing in us reverence and awfulness. Jer. Taylor.

AWHAPE
A*whape", v. t. Etym: [Cf. whap blow.]

Defn: To confound; to terrify; to amaze. [Obs.] Spenser.

AWHILE
A*while", adv. Etym: [Adj. a + while time, interval.]

Defn: For a while; for some time; for a short time.

AWING
A*wing", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + wing.]

Defn: On the wing; flying; fluttering. Wallace.

AWK
Awk, a. Etym: [OE. auk, awk (properly) turned away; (hence) contrary,
wrong, from Icel. öfigr, öfugr, afigr, turning the wrong way, fr. af
off, away; cf. OHG. abuh, Skr. apac turned away, fr. apa off, away +
a root ak, ak, to bend, from which come also E. angle, anchor.]

1. Odd; out of order; perverse. [Obs.]

2. Wrong, or not commonly used; clumsy; sinister; as, the awk end of
a rod (the but end). [Obs.] Golding.

3. Clumsy in performance or manners; unhandy; not dexterous; awkward.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

AWK
Awk, adv.

Defn: Perversely; in the wrong way. L'Estrange.

AWKLY
Awk"ly, adv.

1. In an unlucky (left-handed) or perverse manner. [Obs.] Holland.

2. Awkwardly. [Obs.] Fuller.

AWKWARD
Awk"ward, a. Etym: [Awk + -ward.]

1. Wanting dexterity in the use of the hands, or of instruments; not
dexterous; without skill; clumsy; wanting ease, grace, or
effectiveness in movement; ungraceful; as, he was awkward at a trick;
an awkward boy.
And dropped an awkward courtesy. Dryden.

2. Not easily managed or effected; embarrassing.
A long and awkward process. Macaulay.
An awkward affair is one that has gone wrong, and is difficult to
adjust. C. J. Smith.

3. Perverse; adverse; untoward. [Obs.] "Awkward casualties." "Awkward
wind." Shak.
O blind guides, which being of an awkward religion, do strain out a
gnat, and swallow up a cancel. Udall.

Syn.
 -- Ungainly; unhandy; clownish; lubberly; gawky; maladroit;
bungling; inelegant; ungraceful; unbecoming.
 -- Awkward, Clumsy, Uncouth. Awkward has a special reference to
outward deportment. A man is clumsy in his whole person, he is
awkward in his gait and the movement of his limbs. Clumsiness is seen
at the first view. Awkwardness is discovered only when a person
begins to move. Hence the expressions, a clumsy appearance, and an
awkward manner. When we speak figuratively of an awkward excuse, we
think of a want of ease and grace in making it; when we speak of a
clumsy excuse, we think of the whole thing as coarse and stupid. We
apply the term uncouth most frequently to that which results from the
want of instruction or training; as, uncouth manners; uncouth
language.
 -- Awk"ward*ly (, adv.
 -- Awk"ward*ness, n.

AWKWARD SQUAD
Awk"ward squad. (Mil.)

Defn: A squad of inapt recruits assembled for special drill.

AWL
Awl, n. Etym: [OE. aul, awel, al, AS. , awel; akin to Icel. alr, OHG.
ala, G. ahle, Lith. yla, Skr. ara.]

Defn: A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather or
wood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade is
differently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the brad
awl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc.

AWLESS
Aw"less, a.

1. Wanting reverence; void of respectful fear. "Awless insolence."
Dryden.

2. Inspiring no awe. [Obs.] "The awless throne." Shak. [Written also
aweless]

AWLESSNESS
Aw"less*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being awless.

AWL-SHAPED
Awl"-shaped`, a.

1. Shaped like an awl.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Subulate. See Subulate. Gray.

AWLWORT
Awl"wort`, n. Etym: [Awl + wort.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Subularia aquatica), with awl-shaped leaves.

AWM
Awm (m), n.

Defn: See Aam.

AWN
Awn, n. Etym: [OE. awn, agune, from Icel. ögn, pl. agnir; akin to Sw.
agn, Dan. avne, Goth. ahana, OHG. agana, G. agen, ahne, chaff, Gr.
egla; prob. from same root as E. acute. See 3d Ear. (Bot.)

Defn: The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or any
similar bristlelike appendage; arista. Gray.

AWNED
Awned, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded.
Gray.

AWNING
Awn"ing, n. Etym: [Origin uncertain: cf. F. auvent awing, or Pers.
awan, awang, anything suspended, or LG. havening a place sheltered
from wind and weather, E. haven.]

1. A rooflike cover, usually of canvas, extended over or before any
place as a shelter from the sun, rain, or wind.

2. (Naut.) That part of the poop deck which is continued forward
beyond the bulkhead of the cabin.

AWNINGED
Awn"inged, a.

Defn: Furnished with an awning.

AWNLESS
Awn"less, a.

Defn: Without awns or beard.

AWNY
Awn"y, a.

Defn: Having awns; bearded.

AWORK
A*work", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + work.]

Defn: At work; in action. "Set awork." Shak.

AWORKING
A*work"ing, adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + working.]

Defn: At work; in action. [Archaic or Colloq.] Spenser.

AWREAK; AWREKE
A*wreak", A*wreke",, v. t. & i.

Defn: To avenge. [Obs.] See Wreak.

AWRONG
A*wrong", adv. Etym: [Pref. a- + wrong.]

Defn: Wrongly. Ford.

AWRY
A*wry", adv. & a. Etym: [Pref. a- + wry.]

1. Turned or twisted toward one side; not in a straight or true
direction, or position; out of the right course; distorted;
obliquely; asquint; with oblique vision; as, to glance awry. "Your
crown's awry." Shak.
Blows them transverse, ten thousand leagues awry. Into the devious
air. Milton.

2. Aside from the line of truth, or right reason; unreasonable or
unreasonably; perverse or perversely.
Or by her charms Draws him awry, enslaved. Milton.
Nothing more awry from the law of God and nature than that a woman
should give laws to men. Milton.

AWSOME
Aw"some, a.

Defn: Same as Awesome.

AX; AXE
Ax, Axe,, n. Etym: [OE. ax, axe, AS. eax, æx, acas; akin to D. akse,
OS. accus, OHG. acchus, G. axt, Icel. öx, öxi, Sw. yxe, Dan. ökse,
Goth. aqizi, Gr. , L. ascia; not akin to E. acute.]

Defn: A tool or instrument of steel, or of iron with a steel edge or
blade, for felling trees, chopping and splitting wood, hewing timber,
etc. It is wielded by a wooden helve or handle, so fixed in a socket
or eye as to be in the same plane with the blade. The broadax, or
carpenter's ax, is an ax for hewing timber, made heavier than the
chopping ax, and with a broader and thinner blade and a shorter
handle.

Note: The ancient battle-ax had sometimes a double edge.

Note: The word is used adjectively or in combination; as, axhead or
ax head; ax helve; ax handle; ax shaft; ax-shaped; axlike.

Note: This word was originally spelt with e, axe; and so also was
nearly every corresponding word of one syllable: as, flaxe, taxe,
waxe, sixe, mixe, pixe, oxe, fluxe, etc. This superfluous e is not
dropped; so that, in more than a hundred words ending in x, no one
thinks of retaining the e except in axe. Analogy requires its
exclusion here.

Note: "The spelling ax is better on every ground, of etymology,
phonology, and analogy, than axe, which has of late become
prevalent." New English Dict. (Murray).

AX
Ax, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. axien and asken. See Ask.]

Defn: To ask; to inquire or inquire of.

Note: This word is from Saxon, and is as old as the English language.
Formerly it was in good use, but now is regarded as a vulgarism. It
is still dialectic in England, and is sometimes heard among the
uneducated in the United States. "And Pilate axide him, Art thou king
of Jewis" "Or if he axea fish." Wyclif. 'bdThe king axed after your
Grace's welfare." Pegge.

AXAL
Ax"al, a.

Defn: [See Axial.] [R.]

AXE; AXEMAN
Axe, Axe"man, etc.

Defn: See Ax, Axman.

AXIAL
Ax"i*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to an axis; of the nature of, or resembling, an
axis; around an axis.
To take on an axial, and not an equatorial, direction. Nichol.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; or
to the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones. Axial
line (Magnetism), the line taken by the magnetic force in passing
from one pole of a horseshoe magnet to the other. Faraday.

AXIALLY
Ax"i*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In relation to, or in a line with, an axis; in the axial
(magnetic) line.

AXIL
Ax"il, n. Etym: [L. axilla. Cf. Axle.] (Bot.)

Defn: The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of a
branch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which it
springs. Gray.

AXILE
Ax"ile, a.

Defn: Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies in
the axis of a seed. Gray.

AXILLA
Ax*il"la, n.; pl. Axillae. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm and
shoulder.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: An axil.

AXILLAR
Ax"il*lar, a.

Defn: Axillary.

AXILLARIES; AXILLARS
Ax"il*la*ries, Ax"il*lars, n. pl. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Feathers connecting the under surface of the wing and the body,
and concealed by the closed wing.

AXILLARY
Ax"il*la*ry, a. Etym: [See Axil.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the axilla or armpit; as, axillary gland,
artery, nerve.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Situated in, or rising from, an axil; of or pertaining to an
axil. "Axillary buds." Gray.

AXINITE
Ax"i*nite, n. Etym: [Named in allusion to the form of the crystals,
fr. Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found in
glassy, brown crystals with acute edges.

AXINOMANCY
Ax*in"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [L. axinomantia, Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: A species of divination, by means of an ax or hatchet.

AXIOM
Ax"i*om, n. Etym: [L. axioma, Gr. that which is thought worthy, that
which is assumed, a basis of demonstration, a principle, fr. to think
worthy, fr. worthy, weighing as much as; cf. to lead, drive, also to
weigh so much: cf F. axiome. See Agent, a.]

1. (Logic & Math.)

Defn: A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose
truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration
can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for
granted; as, "The whole is greater than a part;" "A thing can not, at
the same time, be and not be."

2. An established principle in some art or science, which, though not
a necessary truth, is universally received; as, the axioms of
political economy.

Syn.
 -- Axiom, Maxim, Aphorism, Adage. An axiom is a self-evident truth
which is taken for granted as the basis of reasoning. A maxim is a
guiding principle sanctioned by experience, and relating especially
to the practical concerns of life. An aphorism is a short sentence
pithily expressing some valuable and general truth or sentiment. An
adage is a saying of long-established authority and of universal
application.

AXIOMATIC; AXIOMATICAL
Ax`i*o*mat"ic, Ax`i*o*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an axiom; having the nature of an axiom;
self-evident; characterized by axioms. "Axiomatical truth." Johnson.
The stores of axiomatic wisdom. I. Taylor.

AXIOMATICALLY
Ax`i*o*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By the use of axioms; in the form of an axiom.

AXIS
Ax"is, n. Etym: [L.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, where
it is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name).

AXIS
Ax"is, n.; pl. Axes. Etym: [L. axis axis, axle. See Axle.]

Defn: A straight line, real or imaginary, passing through a body, on
which it revolves, or may be supposed to revolve; a line passing
through a body or system around which the parts are symmetrically
arranged.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A straight line with respect to which the different parts of a
magnitude are symmetrically arranged; as, the axis of a cylinder, i.
e., the axis of a cone, that is, the straight line joining the vertex
and the center of the base; the axis of a circle, any straight line
passing through the center.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The stem; the central part, or longitudinal support, on which
organs or parts are arranged; the central line of any body. Gray.

4. (Anat.)
(a) The second vertebra of the neck, or vertebra dentata.
(b) Also used of the body only of the vertebra, which is prolonged
anteriorly within the foramen of the first vertebra or atlas, so as
to form the odontoid process or peg which serves as a pivot for the
atlas and head to turn upon.

5. (Crystallog.)

Defn: One of several imaginary lines, assumed in describing the
position of the planes by which a crystal is bounded.

6. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The primary of secondary central line of any design. Anticlinal
axis (Geol.), a line or ridge from which the strata slope downward on
the two opposite sides.
 -- Synclinal axis, a line from which the strata slope upward in
opposite directions, so as to form a valley.
 -- Axis cylinder (Anat.), the neuraxis or essential, central
substance of a nerve fiber; -- called also axis band, axial fiber,
and cylinder axis.
 -- Axis in peritrochio, the wheel and axle, one of the mechanical
powers.
 -- Axis of a curve (Geom.), a straight line which bisects a system
of parallel chords of a curve; called a principal axis, when cutting
them at right angles, in which case it divides the curve into two
symmetrical portions, as in the parabola, which has one such axis,
the ellipse, which has two, or the circle, which has an infinite
number. The two axes of the ellipse are the major axis and the minor
axis, and the two axes of the hyperbola are the transverse axis and
the conjugate axis.
 -- Axis of a lens, the straight line passing through its center and
perpendicular to its surfaces.
 -- Axis of a telescope or microscope, the straight line with which
coincide the axes of the several lenses which compose it.
 -- Axes of coördinates in a plane, to straight lines intersecting
each other, to which points are referred for the purpose of
determining their relative position: they are either rectangular or
oblique.
 -- Axes of coördinates in space, the three straight lines in which
the coördinate planes intersect each other.
 -- Axis of a balance, that line about which it turns.
 -- Axis of oscillation, of a pendulum, a right line passing through
the center about which it vibrates, and perpendicular to the plane of
vibration.
 -- Axis of polarization, the central line around which the prismatic
rings or curves are arranged. Brewster.
 -- Axis of revolution (Descriptive Geom.), a straight line about
which some line or plane is revolved, so that the several points of
the line or plane shall describe circles with their centers in the
fixed line, and their planes perpendicular to it, the line describing
a surface of revolution, and the plane a solid of revolution.
 -- Axis of symmetry (Geom.), any line in a plane figure which
divides the figure into two such parts that one part, when folded
over along the axis, shall coincide with the other part.
 -- Axis of the equator, ecliptic, horizon (or other circle
considered with reference to the sphere on which it lies), the
diameter of the sphere which is perpendicular to the plane of the
circle. Hutton.
 -- Axis of the Ionic capital (Arch.), a line passing perpendicularly
through the middle of the eye of the volute.
 -- Neutral axis (Mech.), the line of demarcation between the
horizontal elastic forces of tension and compression, exerted by the
fibers in any cross section of a girder.
 -- Optic axis of a crystal, the direction in which a ray of
transmitted light suffers no double refraction. All crystals, not of
the isometric system, are either uniaxial or biaxial.
 -- Optic axis, Visual axis (Opt.), the straight line passing through
the center of the pupil, and perpendicular to the surface of the eye.
 -- Radical axis of two circles (Geom.), the straight line
perpendicular to the line joining their centers and such that the
tangents from any point of it to the two circles shall be equal to
each other.
 -- Spiral axis (Arch.), the axis of a twisted column drawn spirally
in order to trace the circumvolutions without.
 -- Axis of abscissas and Axis of ordinates. See Abscissa.

AXLE
Ax"le, n. Etym: [OE. axel, exel, shoulder, AS. ; akin to AS. eax
axle, Sw. & Dan. axel shoulder, ~, G. achse axle, achsel shoulder, L.
axis axle, Gr. aksha, L. axilla shoulder joint: cf. F. essieu, axle,
OF. aissel, fr. dim. of L. axis. Axis.]

1. The pin or spindle on which a wheel revolves, or which revolves
with a wheel.

2. A transverse bar or shaft connecting the opposite wheels of a car
or carriage; an axletree.

3. An axis; as, the sun's axle.
Had from her axle torn The steadfast earth. Milton.

Note: Railway axles are called leading and trailing from their
position in the front or in the rear of a car or truck respectively.

AXLE BOX
Ax"le box`.

1. A bushing in the hub of a wheel, through which the axle passes.

2. The journal box of a rotating axle, especially a railway axle.

Note: In railway construction, the axle guard, or pedestal, with the
superincumbent weight, rests on the top of the box (usually with a
spring intervening), and holds it in place by flanges. The box rests
upon the journal bearing and key, which intervene between the inner
top of the box and the axle.

AXLED
Ax"led, a.

Defn: Having an axle; -- used in composition.
Merlin's agate-axled car. T. Warton.

AXLE GUARD
Ax"le guard`.

Defn: The part of the framing of a railway car or truck, by which an
axle box is held laterally, and in which it may move vertically; --
also called a jaw in the United States, and a housing in England.

AXLETREE
Ax"le*tree`, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. öxultr.]

1. A bar or beam of wood or iron, connecting the opposite wheels of a
carriage, on the ends of which the wheels revolve.

2. A spindle or axle of a wheel. [Obs.]

AXMAN
Ax"man, n.; pl. Axmen (.

Defn: One who wields an ax.

AXMINSTER
Ax"min`ster, n.

Defn: An Axminster carpet, an imitation Turkey carpet, noted for its
thick and soft pile; -- so called from Axminster, Eng.

AXMINSTER; AXMINSTER CARPET
Ax"min*ster, n., or Axminster carpet .
 (a) [More fully chenille Axminster.] A variety of Turkey carpet,
woven by machine or, when more than 27 inches wide, on a hand loom,
and consisting of strips of worsted chenille so colored as to produce
a pattern on a stout jute backing. It has a fine soft pile. So called
from Axminster, England, where it was formerly (1755 -- 1835) made.
 (b) A similar but cheaper machine-made carpet, resembling moquette
in construction and appearance, but finer and of better material.

AXOLOTL
Ax"o*lotl, n. Etym: [The native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevated
lakes of Mexico; the siredon.

Note: When it breeds in captivity the young develop into true
salamanders of the genus Amblystoma. This also occurs naturally under
favorable conditions, in its native localities; although it commonly
lives and breeds in a larval state, with persistent external gills.
See Siredon.

AXSTONE
Ax"stone`, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of jade. It is used by some savages, particularly the
natives of the South Sea Islands, for making axes or hatchets.

AXTREE
Ax"tree, n.

Defn: Axle or axletree. [Obs.] Drayton.

AXUNGE
Ax"unge, n. Etym: [F. axonge, L. axungia; axis wheel + ungere to
grease.]

Defn: Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.),
lard prepared for medical use.

AY
Ay, interj.

Defn: Ah! alas! "Ay me! I fondly dream `Had ye been there.'" Milton.

AY
Ay, adv.

Defn: Same as Aye.

AYAH
A"yah, n. Etym: [Pg. aia, akin to Sp. aya a governess, ayo a tutor.]

Defn: A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid. [India]

AYE; AY
Aye, Ay, adv. Etym: [Perh. a modification of yea, or from the
interjection of admiration or astonishment, OE. ei, ey, why, hey, ay,
well, ah, ha. Cf. MHG. & G. ei, Dan. ej. Or perh. akin to aye ever.]

Defn: Yes; yea; -- a word expressing assent, or an affirmative answer
to a question. It is much used in viva voce voting in legislative
bodies, etc.

Note: This word is written I in the early editions of Shakespeare and
other old writers.

AYE
Aye, n.

Defn: An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, "To
call for the ayes and noes;" "The ayes have it."

AYE; AY
Aye, Ay, adv. Etym: [Icel. ei, ey; akin to AS. a, awa, always, Goth.
aiws an age, Icel. æfi, OHG, , L. aevum, Gr. je, Skr. course. Age,
v., Either, a., Or, conj.]

Defn: Always; ever; continually; for an indefinite time.
For his mercies aye endure. Milton.
For aye, always; forever; eternally.

AYE-AYE
Aye"-aye`, n. Etym: [From the native name, prob. from its cry.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A singular nocturnal quadruped, allied to the lemurs, found in
Madagascar (Cheiromys Madagascariensis), remarkable for its long
fingers, sharp nails, and rodent-like incisor teeth.

AYEGREEN
Aye"green`, n. Etym: [Aye ever + green.] (Bot.)

Defn: The houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum). Halliwell.

AYEN; AYEIN; AYEINS
A*yen", A*yein", A*yeins", adv. & prep. Etym: [OE. Again.]

Defn: Again; back against. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AYENWARD
A*yen"ward, adv.

Defn: Backward. [Obs.] Chaucer.

AYLE
Ayle, n. Etym: [OE. ayel, aiel, OF. aiol, aiel, F. aïeul, a dim. of
L. avus grandfather.]

Defn: A grandfather. [Obs.] Writ of Ayle, an ancient English writ
which lay against a stranger who had dispossessed the demandant of
land of which his grandfather died seized.

AYME
Ay"me`, n. Etym: [Cf. F. ahi interj.]

Defn: The utterance of the ejaculation "Ay me !" [Obs.] See Ay,
interj. "Aymees and hearty heigh-hoes." J. Fletcher.

AYOND
A*yond", prep. & adv.

Defn: Beyond. [North of Eng.]

AYONT
A*yont", prep. & adv.

Defn: Beyond. [Scot.]

AYRIE; AYRY
A"y*rie, A"y*ry, n.

Defn: See Aerie. Drayton.

AYRSHIRE
Ayr"shire, n. (Agric.)

Defn: One of a superior breed of cattle from Ayrshire, Scotland.
Ayrshires are notable for the quantity and quality of their milk.

AYUNTAMIENTO
A*yun`ta*mi*en"to, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. OSp. ayuntar to join.]

Defn: In Spain and Spanish America, a corporation or body of
magistrates in cities and towns, corresponding to mayor and aldermen.

AZALEA
A*za"le*a, n.; pl. Azaleas. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China or
of North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinct
from Rhododendron.

AZAROLE
Az"a*role, n. Etym: [F. azerole, the name of the fruit, fr. Ar. az-
zo'r: cf. It. azzeruolo, Sp. acerolo.] (Bot.)

Defn: The Neapolitan medlar (Cratægus azarolus), a shrub of southern
Europe; also, its fruit.

AZEDARACH
A*zed"a*rach, n. Etym: [F. azédarac, Sp. acederaque, Pers.
azaddirakht noble tree.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A handsome Asiatic tree (Melia azedarach), common in the
southern United States; -- called also, Pride of India, Pride of
China, and Bead tree.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The bark of the roots of the azedarach, used as a cathartic and
emetic.

AZIMUTH
Az"i*muth, n. Etym: [OE. azimut, F. azimut, fr. Ar. as-sum, pl. of
as-samt a way, or perh., a point of the horizon and a circle
extending to it from the zenith, as being the Arabic article: cf. It.
azzimutto, Pg. azimuth, and Ar. samt-al-ra's the vertex of the
heaven. Cf. Zenith.] (Astron. & Geodesy)
(a) The quadrant of an azimuth circle.
(b) An arc of the horizon intercepted between the meridian of the
place and a vertical circle passing through the center of any object;
as, the azimuth of a star; the azimuth or bearing of a line
surveying.

Note: In trigonometrical surveying, it is customary to reckon the
azimuth of a line from the south point of the horizon around by the
west from 0º to 360º. Azimuth circle, or Vertical circle, one of the
great circles of the sphere intersecting each other in the zenith and
nadir, and cutting the horizon at right angles. Hutton.
 -- Azimuth compass, a compass resembling the mariner's compass, but
having the card divided into degrees instead of rhumbs, and having
vertical sights; used for taking the magnetic azimuth of a heavenly
body, in order to find, by comparison with the true azimuth, the
variation of the needle.
 -- Azimuth dial, a dial whose stile or gnomon is at right angles to
the plane of the horizon. Hutton.
 -- Magnetic azimuth, an arc of the horizon, intercepted between the
vertical circle passing through any object and the magnetic meridian.
This is found by observing the object with an azimuth compass.

AZIMUTHAL
Az"i*muth`al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the azimuth; in a horizontal circle.
Azimuthal error of a transit instrument, its deviation in azimuth
from the plane of the meridian.

AZO-
Az"o-. Etym: [See Azote.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form of azote;
(a) Applied loosely to compounds having nitrogen variously combined,
as in cyanides, nitrates, etc.
(b) Now especially applied to compounds containing a two atom
nitrogen group uniting two hydrocarbon radicals, as in azobenzene,
azobenzoic, etc. These compounds furnish many artificial dyes. See
Diazo-.

AZOBENZENE
Az`o*ben"zene, n. Etym: [Azo- + benzene.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance (C6H5.N2.C6H5) derived from nitrobenzene, forming
orange red crystals which are easily fusible.

AZOGUE
A*zo"gue, n. [Sp. See Azoth.]

Defn: Lit.: Quicksilver; hence: pl. (Mining)

Defn: Silver ores suitable for treatment by amalgamation with
mercury. [Sp. Amer.]

AZOIC
A*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animal
life; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there was
no animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks. Azoic age (Geol.),
the age preceding the existence of animal life, or anterior to the
paleozoic tome. Azoic is also used as a noun, age being understood.
See Archæan, and Eozoic.

AZOLE
Az"ole, n. [From Azote.] (Org. Chem.)

Defn: Any of a large class of compounds characterized by a five-
membered ring which contains an atom of nitrogen and at least one
other noncarbon atom (nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur). The prefixes furo-,
thio, and pyrro-are used to distinguish three subclasses of azoles,
which may be regarded as derived respectively from furfuran,
thiophene, and pyrrol by replacement of the CH group by nitrogen; as,
furo-monazole. Names exactly analogous to those for the azines are
also used; as, oxazole, diazole, etc.

AZOLEIC
Az`o*le"ic, a. Etym: [Azo- + oleic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to an acid produced by treating oleic with nitric
acid. [R.]

AZONIC
A*zon"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Confined to no zone or region; not local.

AZORIAN
A*zo"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Azores.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of the Azores.

AZOTE
Az"ote, n. Etym: [F. azote, fr. Gr.

Defn: Same as Nitrogen. [R.]

AZOTED
Az"ot*ed, a.

Defn: Nitrogenized; nitrogenous.

AZOTH
Az"oth, n. Etym: [LL. azoch, azoth, fr. Ar. az-zauq mercury.]
(Alchemy)
(a) The first principle of metals, i. e., mercury, which was formerly
supposed to exist in all metals, and to be extractable from them.
(b) The universal remedy of Paracelsus.

AZOTIC
A*zot"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting of
azote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid. [R.] Carpenter.

AZOTINE; AZOTIN
Az"o*tine, Az"o*tin, n. [Azote + -ine.]

1.

Defn: An explosive consisting of sodium nitrate, charcoal, sulphur,
and petroleum.

2.  = 1st Ammonite, 2.

AZOTITE
Az"o*tite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the combination of azotous, or nitrous, acid
with a base; a nitrite. [R.]

AZOTIZE
Az"o*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Azotized (p. pr. & vb. n. Azotizing (

Defn: To impregnate with azote, or nitrogen; to nitrogenize.

AZOTOMETER
Az`o*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Azote + -meter.] (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus for measuring or determining the proportion of
nitrogen; a nitrometer.

AZOTOUS
A*zo"tous, a

Defn: : Nitrous; as, azotous acid. [R.]

AZOTURIA
Az`o*tu"ri*a, n. [NL.; azote + Gr.  urine.] (Med.)

Defn: Excess of urea or other nitrogenous substances in the urine.

AZTEC
Az"tec, a.

Defn: Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico that
inhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of the
Spanish conquest in 1519.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Aztec race or people.

AZURE
Az"ure, a. Etym: [F. & OSp. azur, Sp. azul, through Ar. from Per.
lajaward, or lajuward, lapis lazuli, a blue color, lajawardi,
lajuwardi, azure, cerulean, the initial l having been dropped,
perhaps by the influence of the Ar. azr-aq azure, blue. Cf. G. lasur,
lasurstein, azure color, azure stone, and NL. lapis lazuli.]

Defn: Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky;
cerulean; also, cloudless. Azure stone (Min.), the lapis lazuli;
also, the lazulite.

AZURE
Az"ure, n.

1. The lapis lazuli. [Obs.]

2. The clear blue color of the sky; also, a pigment or dye of this
color. "In robes of azure." Wordsworth.

3. The blue vault above; the unclouded sky.
Not like those steps On heaven's azure. Milton.

4. (Her.)

Defn: A blue color, represented in engraving by horizontal parallel
lines.

AZURE
Az"ure, v. t.

Defn: To color blue.

AZURED
Az"ured, a.

Defn: Of an azure color; sky-blue. "The azured harebell." Shak.

AZUREOUS
A*zu"re*ous, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of a fine blue color; azure.

AZURINE
Az"u*rine, a. Etym: [Cf. Azurn.]

Defn: Azure.

AZURINE
Az"u*rine, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The blue roach of Europe (Leuciscus cæruleus); -- so called
from its color.

AZURITE
Az"u*rite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Blue carbonate of copper; blue malachite.

AZURN
Az"urn, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. azurin, asurin, LL. azurinus. See Azure,
a.]

Defn: Azure. [Obs.]
Thick set with agate, and the azurn sheen Of turkis blue, and emerald
green. Milton.

AZYGOUS
Az"y*gous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, the
azygous muscle of the uvula.

AZYM; AZYME
Az"ym, Az"yme, n. Etym: [F. azyme unleavened, L. azymus, fr. Gr.

Defn: Unleavened bread.

AZYMIC
A*zym"ic, a.

Defn: Azymous.

AZYMITE
Az"y*mite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. azymite.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who administered the Eucharist with unleavened bread; -- a
name of reproach given by those of the Greek church to the Latins.

AZYMOUS
Az"y*mous, a. Etym: [See Azym.]

Defn: Unleavened; unfermented. "Azymous bread." Dunglison.

B

Defn: is the second letter of the English alphabet. (See Guide to
Pronunciation, §§ 196,220.) It is etymologically related to p , v , f
, w and m , letters representing sounds having a close organic
affinity to its own sound; as in Eng. bursar and purser; Eng. bear
and Lat. pear; Eng. silver and Ger. silber; Lat. cubitum and It.
gomito; Eng. seven, Anglo-Saxon seofon, Ger. sieben, Lat. septem,
Gr.ptan. The form of letter B is Roman, from Greek B (Beta), of
Semitic origin. The small b was formed by gradual change from the
capital B.

Note: In Music, B is the nominal of the seventh tone in the model
major scale (the scale of C major ), or of the second tone in it's
relative minor scale (that of A minor ) . B stands for B flat, the
tone a half step , or semitone, lower than B. In German, B stands for
our B, while our B natural is called H (pronounced hä).

BA
Ba, v. i. Etym: [Cf. OF. baer to open mouth, F. baer.]

Defn: To kiss. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BAA
Baa, v. i. Etym: [Cf. G. bäen; an imitative word.]

Defn: To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep.
He treble baas for help, but none can get. Sir P. Sidney.

BAA
Baa, n.; pl. Baas. Etym: [Cf. G. bä.]

Defn: The cry or bleating of a sheep; a bleat.

BAAING
Baa"ing, n.

Defn: The bleating of a sheep. Marryat.

BAAL
Ba"al, n.; Heb. pl. Baalim (. Etym: [Heb. ba'al lord.]

1. (Myth.)

Defn: The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitish
nations.

Note: The name of this god occurs in the Old Testament and elsewhere
with qualifying epithets subjoined, answering to the different ideas
of his character; as, Baal-berith (the Covenant Baal), Baal-zebub
(Baal of the fly).

2. pl.

Defn: The whole class of divinities to whom the name Baal was
applied. Judges x. 6.

BAALISM
Ba"al*ism, n.

Defn: Worship of Baal; idolatry.

BAALIST; BAALITE
Ba"al*ist, Ba"al*ite, n.

Defn: A worshiper of Baal; a devotee of any false religion; an
idolater.

BAB
Bab, n. [Per.]

Defn: Lit., gate; -- a title given to the founder of Babism, and
taken from that of Bab-ud-Din, assumed by him.

BABA
Ba"ba, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of plum cake.

BABBITT
Bab"bitt, v. t.

Defn: To line with Babbitt metal.

BABBITT METAL
Bab"bitt met`al. Etym: [From the inventor, Isaac Babbitt of
Massachusetts.]

Defn: A soft white alloy of variable composition (as a nine parts of
tin to one of copper, or of fifty parts of tin to five of antimony
and one of copper) used in bearings to diminish friction.

BABBLE
Bab"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Babbled (p. pr. & vb. n. Babbling.]
Etym: [Cf.LG. babbeln, D. babbelen, G. bappeln, bappern, F. babiller,
It. babbolare; prob. orig., to keep saying ba, imitative of a child
learning to talk.]

1. To utter words indistinctly or unintelligibly; to utter
inarticulate sounds; as a child babbles.

2. To talk incoherently; to utter unmeaning words.

3. To talk much; to chatter; to prate.

4. To make a continuous murmuring noise, as shallow water running
over stones.
In every babbling he finds a friend. Wordsworth.

Note: Hounds are said to babble, or to be babbling, when they are too
noisy after having found a good scent.

Syn.
 -- To prate; prattle; chatter; gossip.

BABBLE
Bab"ble, v. i.

1. To utter in an indistinct or incoherent way; to repeat,as words,
in a childish way without understanding.
These [words] he used to babble in all companies. Arbuthnot.

2. To disclose by too free talk, as a secret.

BABBLE
Bab"ble, n.

1. Idle talk; senseless prattle; gabble; twaddle. "This is mere moral
babble." Milton.

2. Inarticulate speech; constant or confused murmur.
The babble of our young children. Darwin.
The babble of the stream. Tennyson.

BABBLEMENT
Bab"ble*ment, n.

Defn: Babble. Hawthorne.

BABBLER
Bab"bler, n.

1. An idle talker; an irrational prater; a teller of secrets.
Great babblers, or talkers, are not fit for trust. L'Estrange.

2. A hound too noisy on finding a good scent.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name given to any one of family (Timalinæ) of thrushlike
birds, having a chattering note.

BABBLERY
Bab"ble*ry, n.

Defn: Babble. [Obs.] Sir T. More

BABE
Babe, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. bab, baban, W. baban, maban.]

1. An infant; a young child of either sex; a baby.

2. A doll for children. Spenser.

BABEHOOD
Babe"hood, n.

Defn: Babyhood. [R.] Udall.

BABEL
Ba"bel, n. Etym: [Heb. Babel, the name of the capital of Babylonia;
in Genesis associated with the idea of "confusion"]

1. The city and tower in the land of Shinar, where the confusion of
languages took place.
Therefore is the name of it called Babel. Gen. xi. 9.

2. Hence: A place or scene of noise and confusion; a confused mixture
of sounds, as of voices or languages.
That babel of strange heathen languages. Hammond.
The grinding babel of the street. R. L. Stevenson.

BABERY
Bab"er*y, n. Etym: [Perh. orig. for baboonery. Cf. Baboon, and also
Babe.]

Defn: Finery of a kind to please a child. [Obs.] "Painted babery."
Sir P. Sidney.

BABIAN; BABION
Ba"bi*an, Ba"bi*on, n. Etym: [See Baboon]

Defn: A baboon. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BABILLARD
Bab"il*lard, n. Etym: [F., a babbler.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The lesser whitethroat of Europe; -- called also babbling
warbler.

BABINGTONITE
Bab"ing*ton*ite, n. Etym: [From Dr. Babbington.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in triclinic crystals approaching pyroxene
in angle, and of a greenish black color. It is a silicate of iron,
manganese, and lime.

BABIROUSSA; BABIRUSSA
Bab`i*rous"sa, Bab`i*rus"sa (, n. Etym: [F. babiroussa, fr.Malay babi
hog + r deer.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large hoglike quadruped (Sus, or Porcus, babirussa) of the
East Indies, sometimes domesticated; the Indian hog. Its upper canine
teeth or tusks are large and recurved.

BABISH
Bab"ish, a.

Defn: Like a babe; a childish; babyish. [R.] "Babish imbecility."
Drayton.
 -- Bab"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Bab"ish*ness, n. [R.]

BABISM
Bab"ism, n. Etym: [From Bab (Pers. bab a gate), the title assumed by
the founder, Mirza Ali Mohammed.]

Defn: The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated in
Persia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish and
Parsee elements.

BABISM; BABIISM
Bab"ism, Bab"i*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine of a modern religious pantheistical sect in
Persia, which was founded, about 1844, by Mirza Ali Mohammed ibn
Rabhik (1820 -- 1850), who assumed the title of Bab-ed-Din (Per.,
Gate of the Faith). Babism is a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian,
Jewish, and Parsi elements. This doctrine forbids concubinage and
polygamy, and frees women from many of the degradations imposed upon
them among the orthodox Mohammedans. Mendicancy, the use of
intoxicating liquors and drugs, and slave dealing, are forbidden;
asceticism is discountenanced. --Bab"ist, n.

BABIST
Bab"ist, n.

Defn: A believer in Babism.

BABLAH
Bab"lah, n. Etym: [Cf. Per. bab a species of mimosa yielding gum
arabic.]

Defn: The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia;
neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeing
drab.

BABOO; BABU
Ba"boo, Ba"bu, n. Etym: [Hind. bab ]

Defn: A Hindoo gentleman; native clerk who writes English; also, a
Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire. Whitworth.

BABOON
Bab*oon", n. Etym: [OE. babewin, baboin, fr.F. babouin, or LL.
babewynus. Of unknown origin; cf. D. baviaan, G. pavian, baboon, F.
babin lip of ape, dogs, etc., dial. G. bäppe mouth.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus and
Papio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and large
canine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities on
the buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, and
Drill an ape.

BABOONERY
Bab*oon"ery, n.

Defn: Baboonish behavior. Marryat.

BABOONISH
Bab*oon"ish, a.

Defn: Like a baboon.

BABUL; BABOOL
Ba*bul", Ba*bool", n. [See Bablah.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several species of Acacia, esp. A. Arabica, which
yelds a gum used as a substitute for true gum arabic.

In place of Putney's golden gorse
The sickly babul blooms.
Kipling.

BABY
Ba"by, n.; pl. Babies. Etym: [Dim. of babe]

Defn: An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.

2. A small image of an infant; a doll. Babies in the eyes, the minute
reflection which one sees of one's self in the eyes of another.
She clung about his neck, gave him ten kisses, Toyed with his locks,
looked babies in his eyes. Heywood.

BABY
Ba"by, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, an infant; young or little; as,
baby swans. "Baby figure" Shak.

BABY
Ba"by, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Babied (p. pr. & vb. n.Babying.]

Defn: To treat like a young child; to keep dependent; to humor; to
fondle. Young.

BABY FARM
Ba"by farm`.

Defn: A place where the nourishment and care of babies are offered
for hire.

BABY FARMER
Ba"by farm`er.

Defn: One who keeps a baby farm.

BABY FARMING
Ba"by farm`ing.

Defn: The business of keeping a baby farm.

BABYHOOD
Ba"by*hood, n.

Defn: The state or period of infancy.

BABYHOUSE
Ba"by*house`, a.

Defn: A place for children's dolls and dolls' furniture. Swift.

BABYISH
Ba"by*ish, a.

Defn: Like a baby; childish; puerile; simple.
 -- Ba"by*ish*ly, adv.
 -- Ba"by*ish*ness, n.

BABYISM
Ba"by*ism, n.

1. The state of being a baby.

2. A babyish manner of acting or speaking.

BABY JUMPER
Ba"by jump`er.

Defn: A hoop suspended by an elastic strap, in which a young child
may be held secure while amusing itself by jumping on the floor.

BABYLONIAN
Bab`y*lo"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or to
the ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean.

BABYLONIAN
Bab`y*lo"ni*an, n.

1. An inhabitant of Babylonia (which included Chaldea); a Chaldean.

2. An astrologer; -- so called because the Chaldeans were remarkable
for the study of astrology.

BABYLONIC; BABYLONICAL
Bab`y*lon"ic, Bab`y*lon"ic*al, a.

1. Pertaining to Babylon, or made there; as Babylonic
garments,carpets, or hangings.

2. Tumultuous; disorderly. [Obs.] Sir J. Harrington.

BABYLONISH
Bab"y*lo`nish, n.

1. Of or pertaining to, or made in, Babylon or Babylonia. "A
Babylonish garment." Josh. vii. 21.

2. Pertaining to the Babylon of Revelation xiv.8.

3. Pertaining to Rome and papal power. [Obs.]
The . . . injurious nickname of Babylonish. Gape.

4. Confused; Babel-like.

BABYROUSSA; BABYRUSSA
Bab`y*rous"sa, Bab`y*rus"sa, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Babyroussa.

BABYSHIP
Ba"by*ship, n.

Defn: The quality of being a baby; the personality of an infant.

BAC
Bac, n. Etym: [F. See Back a vat]

1. A broad, flatbottomed ferryboat, usually worked by a rope.

2. A vat or cistern. See 1st Back.

BACCALAUREATE
Bac"ca*lau"re*ate, n. Etym: [NL. baccalaureatus, fr.LL. baccalaureus
a bachelor of arts, fr. baccalarius, but as if fr L. bacca lauri
bayberry, from the practice of the bachelor's wearing a garland of
bayberries. See Bachelor.]

1. The degree of bachelor of arts. (B.A. or A.B.), the first or
lowest academical degree conferred by universities and colleges.

2. A baccalaureate sermon. [U.S.]

BACCALAUREATE
Bac`ca*lau"re*ate, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a bachelor of arts. Baccalaureate sermon, in some
American colleges, a sermon delivered as a farewell discourse to a
graduating class.

BACCARA; BACCARAT
Bac`ca*ra", Bac`ca*rat", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A French game of cards, played by a banker and punters.

BACCARE; BACKARE
Bac*ca"re, Bac*ka"re, interj.

Defn: Stand back! give place! -- a cant word of the Elizabethan
writers, probably in ridicule of some person who pretended to a
knowledge of Latin which he did not possess.
Baccare! you are marvelous forward. Shak.

BACCATE
Bac"cate, a. Etym: [L. baccatus, fr. L. bacca berry.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pulpy throughout, like a berry; -- said of fruits. Gray.

BACCATED
Bac"ca*ted, a.

1. Having many berries.

2. Set or adorned with pearls. [Obs.]

BACCHANAL
Bac"cha*nal, a. Etym: [L. Bacchanalis. See Bacchanalia.]

1. Relating to Bacchus or his festival.

2. Engaged in drunken revels; drunken and riotous or noisy.

BACCHANAL
Bac"cha*nal, n.

1. A devotee of Bacchus; one who indulges in drunken revels; one who
is noisy and riotous when intoxicated; a carouser. "Tipsy
bacchanals." Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: The festival of Bacchus; the bacchanalia.

3. Drunken revelry; an orgy.

4. A song or dance in honor of Bacchus.

BACCHANALIA
Bac`cha*na"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [L. Bacchanal a place devoted to
Bacchus; in the pl. Bacchanalia a feast of Bacchus, fr. Bacchus the
god of wine, Gr.

1. (Myth.)

Defn: A feast or an orgy in honor of Bacchus.

2. Hence: A drunken feast; drunken reveler.

BACCHANALIAN
Bac`cha*na"li*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to or
given to reveling and drunkenness.
Even bacchanalian madness has its charms. Cowper.

BACCHANALIAN
Bac`cha*na"li*an, n.

Defn: A bacchanal; a drunken reveler.

BACCHANALIANISM
Bac`cha*na"li*an*ism, n.

Defn: The practice of bacchanalians; bacchanals; drunken revelry.

BACCHANT
Bac"chant, n.; pl. E. Bacchants, L. Bacchantes. Etym: [L. bacchans, -
antis, p. pr. of bacchari to celebrate the festival of Bacchus.]

1. A priest of Bacchus.

2. A bacchanal; a reveler. Croly.

BACCHANT
Bac"chant, a.

Defn: Bacchanalian; fond of drunken revelry; wine-loving; reveling;
carousing. Byron.

BACCHANTE
Bac"chante, n.; L. pl. Bacchantes.

1. A priestess of Bacchus.

2. A female bacchanal.

BACCHANTIC
Bac*chan"tic, a.

Defn: Bacchanalian.

BACCHIC; BACCHICAL
Bac"chic, Bac"chic*al, a. Etym: [L. Bacchicus, Gr.

Defn: Of or relating to Bacchus; hence, jovial, or riotous,with
intoxication.

BACCHIUS
Bac*chi"us, n.; pl. Bacchii. Etym: [L. Bacchius pes, Gr. (Pros.)

Defn: A metrical foot composed of a short syllable and two long ones;
according to some, two long and a short.

BACCHUS
Bac"chus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: The god of wine, son of Jupiter and Semele.

BACCIFEROUS
Bac*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. baccifer; bacca berry + ferre to bear]

Defn: Producing berries. " Bacciferous trees." Ray.

BACCIFORM
Bac"ci*form, a. Etym: [L. bacca berry + -form. ]

Defn: Having the form of a berry.

BACCIVOROUS
Bac*civ"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. bacca berry + varare to devour.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Eating, or subsisting on, berries; as, baccivorous birds.

BACE
Bace, n., a., & v.

Defn: See Base. [Obs.] Spenser.

BACHARACH; BACKARACK
Bach"a*rach, Back"a*rack, n.

Defn: A kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine.

BACHELOR
Bach"e*lor, n. Etym: [OF. bacheler young man, F. bachelier (cf.Pr.
bacalar, Sp.bachiller, Pg. bacharel, It. baccalare), LL. baccalarius
the tenant of a kind of farm called baccalaria, a soldier not old or
rich enough to lead his retainers into battle with a banner, person
of an inferior academical degree aspiring to a doctorate. In the
latter sense, it was afterward changed to baccalaureus. See
Baccalaureate, n.]

1. A man of any age who has not been married.
As merry and mellow an old bachelor as ever followed a hound. W.
Irving.

2. An unmarried woman. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

3. A person who has taken the first or lowest degree in the liberal
arts, or in some branch of science, at a college or university; as, a
bachelor of arts.

4. A knight who had no standard of his own, but fought under the
standard of another in the field; often, a young knight.

5. In the companies of London tradesmen, one not yet admitted to wear
the livery; a junior member. [Obs.]

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of bass, an edible fresh-water fish (Pomoxys annularis)
of the southern United States.

BACHELORDOM
Bach"e*lor*dom, n.

Defn: The state of bachelorhood; the whole body of bachelors.

BACHELORHOOD
Bach"e*lor*hood, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being a bachelor; bachelorship.

BACHELORISM
Bach"e*lor*ism, n.

Defn: Bachelorhood; also, a manner or peculiarity belonging to
bachelors. W. Irving.

BACHELOR'S BUTTON
Bach"e*lor's but"ton

Defn: , (Bot.) A plant with flowers shaped like buttons; especially,
several species of Ranunculus, and the cornflower (Centaures cyanus)
and globe amaranth (Gomphrena).

Note: Bachelor's buttons, a name given to several flowers "from their
similitude to the jagged cloathe buttons, anciently worne in this
kingdom", according to Johnson's Gerarde, p.472 (1633); but by other
writers ascribed to "a habit of country fellows to carry them in
their pockets to divine their success with their sweethearts." Dr.
Prior.

BACHELORSHIP
Bach"e*lor*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a bachelor.

BACHELRY
Bach"el*ry, n. Etym: [OF. bachelerie.]

Defn: The body of young aspirants for knighthood. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BACILLAR
Ba*cil"lar, a. Etym: [L. bacillum little staff.] (Biol.)

Defn: Shaped like a rod or staff.

BACILLARIAE
Bac"il*la`ri*æ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr.L. bacillum, dim. of baculum
stick.] (Biol.)

Defn: See Diatom.

BACILLARY
Bac"il*la*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to little rods; rod-shaped.

BACILLIFORM
Ba*cil"li*form, a. Etym: [L. bacillum little staff + -form.]

Defn: Rod-shaped.

BACILLUS
Ba*cil"lus, n.; pl. Bacilli (. Etym: [NL., for L. bacillum. See
Bacillarle.] (Biol.)

Defn: A variety of bacterium; a microscopic, rod-shaped vegetable
organism.

BACK
Back, n. Etym: [F. bac: cf. Arm. bak tray, bowl.]

1. A large shallow vat; a cistern, tub, or trough, used by brewers,
distillers, dyers, picklers, gluemakers, and others, for mixing or
cooling wort, holding water, hot glue, etc. Hop back, Jack back, the
cistern which receives the infusion of malt and hops from the copper.
 -- Wash back, a vat in which distillers ferment the wort to form
wash.
 -- Water back, a cistern to hold a supply of water; esp. a small
cistern at the back of a stove, or a group of pipes set in the fire
box of a stove or furnace, through which water circulates and is
heated.

2. A ferryboat. See Bac, 1

BACK
Back, n. Etym: [As bæc, bac; akin to Icel., Sw., & LG. bak, Dan. bag;
cf. OHG. bahho ham, Skr. bhaj to turn, OSlav. b flight. Cf. Bacon.]

1. In human beings, the hinder part of the body, extending from the
neck to the end of the spine; in other animals, that part of the body
which corresponds most nearly to such part of a human being; as, the
back of a horse, fish, or lobster.

2. An extended upper part, as of a mountain or ridge.
[The mountains] their broad bare backs upheave Into the clouds.
Milton.

3. The outward or upper part of a thing, as opposed to the inner or
lower part; as, the back of the hand, the back of the foot, the back
of a hand rail.
Methought Love pitying me, when he saw this, Gave me your hands, the
backs and palms to kiss. Donne.

4. The part opposed to the front; the hinder or rear part of a thing;
as, the back of a book; the back of an army; the back of a chimney.

5. The part opposite to, or most remote from, that which fronts the
speaker or actor; or the part out of sight, or not generally seen;
as, the back of an island, of a hill, or of a village.

6. The part of a cutting tool on the opposite side from its edge; as,
the back of a knife, or of a saw.

7. A support or resource in reserve.
This project Should have a back or second, that might hold, If this
should blast in proof. Shak.

8. (Naut.)

Defn: The keel and keelson of a ship.

9. (Mining)

Defn: The upper part of a lode, or the roof of a horizontal
underground passage.

10. A garment for the back; hence, clothing.
A bak to walken inne by daylight. Chaucer.
Behind one's back, when one is absent; without one's knowledge; as,
to ridicule a person behind his back.
 -- Full back, Half back, Quarter back (Football), players stationed
behind those in the front line.
 -- To be or lie on one's back, to be helpless.
 -- To put, or get, one's back up, to assume an attitude of obstinate
resistance (from the action of a cat when attacked.). [Colloq.] -- To
see the back of, to get rid of.
 -- To turn the back, to go away; to flee.
 -- To turn the back on one, to forsake or neglect him.

BACK
Back, a.

1. Being at the back or in the rear; distant; remote; as, the back
door; back settlements.

2. Being in arrear; overdue; as, back rent.

3. Moving or operating backward; as, back action. Back charges,
charges brought forward after an account has been made up.
 -- Back filling (Arch.), the mass of materials used in filling up
the space between two walls, or between the inner and outer faces of
a wall, or upon the haunches of an arch or vault.
 -- Back pressure. (Steam Engine) See under Pressure.
 -- Back rest, a guide attached to the slide rest of a lathe, and
placed in contact with the work, to steady it in turning.
 -- Back slang, a kind of slang in which every word is written or
pronounced backwards; as, nam for man.
 -- Back stairs, stairs in the back part of a house; private stairs.
Also used adjectively. See Back stairs, Backstairs, and Backstair, in
the Vocabulary.
 -- Back step (Mil.), the retrograde movement of a man or body of
men, without changing front.
 -- Back stream, a current running against the main current of a
stream; an eddy.
 -- To take the back track, to retrace one's steps; to retreat.
[Colloq.]

BACK
Back, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Backed (; p. pr. & vb. n. Backing.]

1. To get upon the back of; to mount.
I will back him [a horse] straight. Shak.

2. To place or seat upon the back. [R.]
Great Jupiter, upon his eagle backed, Appeared to me. Shak.

3. To drive or force backward; to cause to retreat or recede; as, to
back oxen.

4. To make a back for; to furnish with a back; as, to back books.

5. To adjoin behind; to be at the back of.
A garden . . . with a vineyard backed. Shak.
The chalk cliffs which back the beach. Huxley.

6. To write upon the back of; as, to back a letter; to indorse; as,
to back a note or legal document.

7. To support; to maintain; to second or strengthen by aid or
influence; as, to back a friend. "Parliament would be backed by the
people." Macaulay.
Have still found it necessary to back and fortify their laws with
rewards and punishments. South.
The mate backed the captain manfully. Blackw. Mag.

8. To bet on the success of; -- as, to back a race horse. To back an
anchor (Naut.), to lay down a small anchor ahead of a large one, the
cable of the small one being fastened to the crown of the large one.
 -- To back the field, in horse racing, to bet against a particular
horse or horses, that some one of all the other horses, collectively
designated "the field", will win.
 -- To back the oars, to row backward with the oars.
 -- To back a rope, to put on a preventer.
 -- To back the sails, to arrange them so as to cause the ship to
move astern.
 -- To back up, to support; to sustain; as, to back up one's friends.
 -- To back a warrant (Law), is for a justice of the peace, in the
county where the warrant is to be executed, to sign or indorse a
warrant, issued in another county, to apprehend an offender.
 -- To back water (Naut.), to reverse the action of the oars,
paddles, or propeller, so as to force the boat or ship backward.

BACK
Back, v. i.

1. To move or go backward; as, the horse refuses to back.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To change from one quarter to another by a course opposite to
that of the sun; -- used of the wind.

3. (Sporting)

Defn: To stand still behind another dog which has poined; -- said of
a dog. [Eng.] To back and fill, to manage the sails of a ship so that
the wind strikes them alternately in front and behind, in order to
keep the ship in the middle of a river or channel while the current
or tide carries the vessel against the wind. Hence: (Fig.) To take
opposite positions alternately; to assert and deny. [Colloq.] -- To
back out, To back down, to retreat or withdraw from a promise,
engagement, or contest; to recede. [Colloq.]
Cleon at first . . . was willing to go; but, finding that he [Nicias]
was in earnest, he tried to back out. Jowett (Thucyd. )

BACK
Back, adv. Etym: [Shortened from aback.]

1. In, to, or toward, the rear; as, to stand back; to step back.

2. To the place from which one came; to the place or person from
which something is taken or derived; as, to go back for something
left behind; to go back to one's native place; to put a book back
after reading it.

3. To a former state, condition, or station; as, to go back to
private life; to go back to barbarism.

4. ( Of time) In times past; ago. "Sixty or seventy years back."
Gladstone.

5. Away from contact; by reverse movement.
The angel of the Lord . . . came, and rolled back the stone from the
door. Matt. xxvii. 2.

6. In concealment or reserve; in one's own possession; as, to keep
back the truth; to keep back part of the money due to another.

7. In a state of restraint or hindrance.
The Lord hath kept thee back from honor. Numb. xxiv. 11.

8. In return, repayment, or requital.
What have I to give you back! Shak.

9. In withdrawal from a statement, promise, or undertaking; as, he
took back0 the offensive words.

10. In arrear; as, to be back in one's rent. [Colloq.] Back and
forth, backwards and forwards; to and fro.
 -- To go back on, to turn back from; to abandon; to betray; as, to
go back on a friend; to go back on one's professions. [Colloq.]

BACKARACK
Back"a*rack, n.

Defn: See Bacharach.

BACKARE
Bac*ka"re, interj.

Defn: Same as Baccare.

BACKBAND
Back"band`, n. Etym: [2nd back ,n.+ band.] (Saddlery)

Defn: The band which passes over the back of a horse and holds up the
shafts of a carriage.

BACKBITE
Back"bite`, v. i. Etym: [2nd back, n., + bite]

Defn: To wound by clandestine detraction; to censure meanly or
spitefully (as absent person); to slander or speak evil of (one
absent). Spenser.

BACKBITE
Back"bite`, v. i.

Defn: To censure or revile the absent.
They are arrant knaves, and will backbite. Shak.

BACKBITER
Back"bit`er, n.

Defn: One who backbites; a secret calumniator or detractor.

BACKBITING
Back"bit`ing, n.

Defn: Secret slander; detraction.
Backbiting, and bearing of false witness. Piers Plowman.

BACKBOARD
Back"board`, n. Etym: [2nd back, n. + board.]

1. A board which supports the back wen one is sitting;

Note: specifically, the board athwart the after part of a boat.

2. A board serving as the back part of anything, as of a wagon.

3. A thin stuff used for the backs of framed pictures, mirrors, etc.

4. A board attached to the rim of a water wheel to prevent the water
from running off the floats or paddies into the interior of the
wheel. W. Nicholson.

5. A board worn across the back to give erectness to the figure.
Thackeray.

BACKBOND
Back"bond`, n. Etym: [Back, adv. + bond.] (Scots Law)

Defn: An instrument which, in conjunction with another making an
absolute disposition, constitutes a trust.

BACKBONE
Back"bone", n. Etym: [2d back,n.+ bone. ]

1. The column of bones in the back which sustains and gives firmness
to the frame; the spine; the vertebral or spinal column.

2. Anything like , or serving the purpose of, a backbone.
The lofty mountains on the north side compose the granitic axis, or
backbone of the country. Darwin.
We have now come to the backbone of our subject. Earle.

3. Firmness; moral principle; steadfastness.
Shelley's thought never had any backbone. Shairp.
To the backbone, through and through; thoroughly; entirely. "Staunch
to the backbone." Lord Lytton.

BACKBONED
Back"boned", a.

Defn: Vertebrate.

BACKCAST
Back"cast`, n. Etym: [Back, adv.+ cast.]

Defn: Anything which brings misfortune upon one, or causes failure in
an effort or enterprise; a reverse. [Scot.]

BACK DOOR
Back" door".

Defn: A door in the back part of a building; hence, an indirect way.
Atterbury.

BACKDOOR
Back"door", a.

Defn: Acting from behind and in concealment; as backdoor intrigues.

BACKDOWN
Back"down`, n.

Defn: A receding or giving up; a complete surrender. [Colloq.]

BACKED
Backed, a.

Defn: Having a back; fitted with a back; as, a backed electrotype or
stereotype plate. Used in composition; as, broad- backed; hump-
backed.

BACKER
Back"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs a
person or thing in a contest.

BACKFALL
Back"fall`, n. Etym: [2nd back ,n. + fall]

Defn: A fall or throw on the back in wrestling.

BACK FIRE
Back fire.
 (a) A fire started ahead of a forest or prairie fire to burn only
against the wind, so that when the two fires meet both must go out
for lack of fuel.
 (b) A premature explosion in the cylinder of a gas or oil engine
during the exhaust or the compression stroke, tending to drive the
piston in a direction reverse to that in which it should travel;
also, an explosion in the exhaust passages of such ah engine.

BACK-FIRE
Back"-fire`, v. i.

1. (Engin.)

Defn: To have or experience a back fire or back fires; -- said of an
internal-combustion engine.

2.  Of a Bunsen or similar air-fed burner, to light so that the flame
proceeds from the internal gas jet instead of from the external jet
of mixed gas and air. -- Back"-fir`ing, n.

BACKFRIEND
Back"friend`, n. Etym: [Back,n.or adv. + friend]

Defn: A secret enemy. [Obs.] South.

BACKGAMMON
Back"gam`mon, n. Etym: [Origin unknown; perhaps fr.Dan. bakke tray +
E. game; or very likely the first part is from E.back, adv., and the
game is so called because the men are often set back.]

Defn: A game of chance and skill, played by two persons on a "board"
marked off into twenty-four spaces called "points". Each player has
fifteen pieces, or "men", the movements of which from point to point
are determined by throwing dice. Formerly called tables. Backgammon
board , a board for playing backgammon, often made in the form of two
rectangular trays hinged together, each tray containing two "tables".

BACKGAMMON
Back"gam`mon, v. i.

Defn: In the game of backgammon, to beat by ending the game before
the loser is clear of his first "table".

BACKGROUND
Back"ground`, n. Etym: [Back, a. + ground.]

1. Ground in the rear or behind, or in the distance, as opposed to
the foreground, or the ground in front.

2. (Paint.)

Defn: The space which is behind and subordinate to a portrait or
group of figures.

Note: The distance in a picture is usually divided into foreground,
middle distance, and background. Fairholt.

3. Anything behind, serving as a foil; as, the statue had a
background of red hangings.

4. A place in obscurity or retirement, or out of sight.
I fancy there was a background of grinding and waiting before Miss
Torry could produce this highly finished . . . performance. Mrs.
Alexander.
A husband somewhere in the background. Thackeray.

BACKHAND
Back"hand`, n. Etym: [Back, adv. + hand.]

Defn: A kind of handwriting in which the downward slope of the
letters is from left to right.

BACKHAND
Back"hand`, a.

1. Sloping from left to right; -- said of handwriting.

2. Backhanded; indirect; oblique. [R.]

BACKHANDED
Back"hand`ed, a.

1. With the hand turned backward; as, a backhanded blow.

2. Indirect; awkward; insincere; sarcastic; as, a backhanded
compliment.

3. Turned back, or inclining to the left; as, a backhanded letters.

BACKHANDEDNESS
Back"hand`ed*ness, n.

Defn: State of being backhanded; the using of backhanded or indirect
methods.

BACKHANDER
Back"hand`er, n.

Defn: A backhanded blow.

BACKHEEL
Back"heel`, n. (Wrestling)

Defn: A method of tripping by getting the leg back of the opponent's
heel on the outside and pulling forward while pushing his body back;
a throw made in this way. -- v. t.

Defn: To trip (a person) in this way.

BACKHOUSE
Back"house`, n. Etym: [Back, a. + house.]

Defn: A building behind the main building. Specifically: A privy; a
necessary.

BACKING
Back"ing, n.

1. The act of moving backward, or of putting or moving anything
backward.

2. That which is behind, and forms the back of, anything, usually
giving strength or stability.

3. Support or aid given to a person or cause.

4. (Bookbinding)

Defn: The preparation of the back of a book with glue, etc., before
putting on the cover.

BACKJOINT
Back"joint`, n. Etym: [Back , a. or adv. + joint.] (Arch.)

Defn: A rebate or chase in masonry left to receive a permanent slab
or other filling.

BACKLASH
Back"lash`, n. Etym: [Back , adv. + lash.] (Mech.)

Defn: The distance through which one part of connected machinery, as
a wheel, piston, or screw, can be moved without moving the connected
parts, resulting from looseness in fitting or from wear; also, the
jarring or reflex motion caused in badly fitting machinery by
irregularities in velocity or a reverse of motion.

BACKLESS
Back"less, a.

Defn: Without a back.

BACKLOG
Back"log`, n. Etym: [Back, a. + log.]

Defn: A large stick of wood, forming the of a fire on the hearth.
[U.S.]
There was first a backlog, from fifteen to four and twenty inches in
diameter and five feet long, imbedded in the ashes. S. G. Goodrich.

BACKPIECE; BACKPLATE
Back"piece`, Back"plate`, n. Etym: [Back,n.or a. + piece, plate. ]

Defn: A piece, or plate which forms the back of anything, or which
covers the back; armor for the back.

BACKRACK; BACKRAG
Back"rack, Back"rag, n.

Defn: See Bacharach.

BACKS
Backs, n. pl.

Defn: Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides.

BACKSAW
Back"saw`, n. Etym: [2d back,n.+ saw.]

Defn: A saw (as a tenon saw) whose blade is stiffened by an added
metallic back.

BACKSET
Back"set`, n. Etym: [Back, adv. + set.]

1. A check; a relapse; a discouragement; a setback.

2. Whatever is thrown back in its course, as water.
Slackwater, or the backset caused by the overflow. Harper's Mag.

BACKSET
Back"set`, v. i.

Defn: To plow again, in the fall; -- said of prairie land broken up
in the spring. [Western U.S.]

BACKSETTLER
Back"set"tler, n. Etym: [Back, a. + settler.]

Defn: One living in the back or outlying districts of a community.
The English backsettlers of Leinster and Munster. Macaulay.

BACKSHEESH; BACKSHISH
Back"sheesh`, Back"shish`, n. Etym: [Pers. bakhshish, fr. bakhshidan
to give.]

Defn: In Egypt and the Turkish empire, a gratuity; a "tip".

BACKSIDE
Back"side`, n. Etym: [Back, a. + side. ]

Defn: The hinder part, posteriors, or rump of a person or animal.

Note: Backside (one word) was formerly used of the rear part or side
of any thing or place, but in such senses is now two words.

BACKSIGHT
Back"sight`, n. Etym: [Back, adv. + sight. ] (Surv.)

Defn: The reading of the leveling staff in its unchanged position
when the leveling instrument has been taken to a new position; a
sight directed backwards to a station previously occupied. Cf.
Foresight, n., 3.

BACKSLIDE
Back`slide", v. i. [imp. Backslid; p.p. Backslidden, Backslid; p. pr.
& vb. n. Backsliding. ] Etym: [Back , adv.+ slide.]

Defn: To slide back; to fall away; esp. to abandon gradually the
faith and practice of a religion that has been professed.

BACKSLIDER
Back"slid"er, n.

Defn: One who backslides.

BACKSLIDING
Back"slid"ing, a.

Defn: Slipping back; falling back into sin or error; sinning.
Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord. Jer. iii. 14.

BACKSLIDING
Back"slid"ing, n.

Defn: The act of one who backslides; abandonment of faith or duty.
Our backslidings are many. Jer. xiv. 7.

BACKSTAFF
Back"staff`, n.

Defn: An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of the
heavenly bodies, but now superseded by the quadrant and sextant; --
so called because the observer turned his back to the body observed.

BACK STAIRS
Back" stairs`.

Defn: Stairs in the back part of a house, as distinguished from the
front stairs; hence, a private or indirect way.

BACKSTAIRS; BACKSTAIR
Back"stairs`, Back"stair`, a.

Defn: Private; indirect; secret; intriguing; as if finding access by
the back stairs.
A backstairs influence. Burke.
Female caprice and backstairs influence. Trevelyan.

BACKSTAY
Back"stay`, n. Etym: [Back, a. orn.+ stay.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope or stay extending from the masthead to the side of a
ship, slanting a little aft, to assist the shrouds in supporting the
mast. [ Often used in the plural.]

2. A rope or strap used to prevent excessive forward motion.

BACKSTER
Back"ster, n. Etym: [See Baxter.]

Defn: A backer. [Obs.]

BACKSTITCH
Back"stitch`, n. Etym: [Back, adv. + stitch.]

Defn: A stitch made by setting the needle back of the end of the last
stitch, and bringing it out in front of the end.

BACKSTITCH
Back"stitch`, v. i.

Defn: To sew with backstitches; as, to backstitch a seam.

BACKSTOP
Back"stop`, n.

1. In baseball, a fence, prop. at least 90 feet behind the home base,
to stop the balls that pass the catcher; also, the catcher himself.

2.  In rounders, the player who stands immediately behind the
striking base.

3.  In cricket, the longstop; also, the wicket keeper.

BACKSTRESS
Back"stress, n.

Defn: A female baker. [Obs.]

BACKSWORD
Back"sword`, n. Etym: [2d back,n.+ sword.]

1. A sword with one sharp edge.

2. In England, a stick with a basket handle, used in rustic
amusements; also, the game in which the stick is used. Also called
singlestick. Halliwell.

BACKWARD; BACKWARDS
Back"ward, Back"wards, adv. Etym: [Back, adv. + -ward.]

1. With the back in advance or foremost; as, to ride backward.

2. Toward the back; toward the rear; as, to throw the arms backward.

3. On the back, or with the back downward.
Thou wilt fall backward. Shak.

4. Toward, or in, past time or events; ago.
Some reigns backward. Locke.

5. By way of reflection; reflexively. Sir J. Davies.

6. From a better to a worse state, as from honor to shame, from
religion to sin.
The work went backward. Dryden.

7. In a contrary or reverse manner, way, or direction; contrarily;
as, to read backwards.
We might have . . . beat them backward home. Shak.

BACKWARD
Back"ward, a.

1. Directed to the back or rear; as, backward glances.

2. Unwilling; averse; reluctant; hesitating; loath.
For wiser brutes were backward to be slaves. Pope.

3. Not well advanced in learning; not quick of apprehension; dull;
inapt; as, a backward child. "The backward learner." South.

4. Late or behindhand; as, a backward season.

5. Not advanced in civilization; undeveloped; as, the country or
region is in a backward state.

6. Already past or gone; bygone. [R.]
And flies unconscious o'er each backward year. Byron.

BACKWARD
Back"ward, n.

Defn: The state behind or past. [Obs.]
In the dark backward and abysm of time. Shak.

BACKWARD
Back"ward, v. i.

Defn: To keep back; to hinder. [Obs.]

BACKWARDATION
Back`war*da"tion, n. Etym: [Backward, v.i.+ -ation.] (Stock Exchange)

Defn: The seller's postponement of delivery of stock or shares, with
the consent of the buyer, upon payment of a premium to the latter; --
also, the premium so paid. See Contango. Biddle.

BACKWARDLY
Back"ward*ly, adv.

1. Reluctantly; slowly; aversely. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

2. Perversely; ill.[Obs.]
And does he think so backwardly of me Shak.

BACKWARDNESS
Back"ward*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being backward.

BACKWASH
Back"wash`, v. i.

Defn: To clean the oil from (wood) after combing.

BACKWATER
Back"wa`ter, n. Etym: [Back, a. or adv. + -ward. ]

1. Water turned back in its course by an obstruction, an opposing
current , or the flow of the tide, as in a sewer or river channel, or
across a river bar.

2. An accumulation of water overflowing the low lands, caused by an
obstruction.

3. Water thrown back by the turning of a waterwheel, or by the paddle
wheels of a steamer.

BACKWOODS
Back"woods", n. pl. Etym: [Back, a. + woods.]

Defn: The forests or partly cleared grounds on the frontiers.

BACKWOODSMAN
Back"woods"man, n.; pl. Backwoodsmen (.

Defn: A men living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements,
especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of the
United States. Fisher Ames.

BACKWORM
Back"worm`, n. Etym: [2d back,n.+ worm. ]

Defn: A disease of hawks. See Filanders. Wright.

BACON
Ba"con, n. Etym: [OF. bacon, fr. OHG. bacho, bahho, flitch of bacon,
ham; akin to E. back. Cf. Back the back side.]

Defn: The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, the
flesh of a pig salted or fresh. Bacon beetle (Zoöl.), a beetle
(Dermestes lardarius) which, especially in the larval state, feeds
upon bacon, woolens, furs, etc. See Dermestes.
 -- To save one's bacon, to save one's self or property from harm or
less. [Colloq.]

BACONIAN
Ba*co"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Lord Bacon, or to his system of philosophy.
Baconian method, the inductive method. See Induction.

BACTERIA
Bac*te"ri*a, n.p.

Defn: See Bacterium.

BACTERIAL
Bac*te"ri*al, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to bacteria.

BACTERICIDAL
Bac*te"ri*ci`dal, a.

Defn: Destructive of bacteria.

BACTERICIDE
Bac*te"ri*cide, n. Etym: [Bacterium + L. caedere to kill] (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Germicide.

BACTERIN
Bac"te*rin, n. (Med.)

Defn: A bacterial vaccine.

BACTERIOLOGICAL
Bac*te"ri*o*log`ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to bacteriology; as, bacteriological studies.

BACTERIOLOGIST
Bac*te"ri*ol`o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in bacteriology.

BACTERIOLOGY
Bac*te"ri*ol`o*gy, n. Etym: [Bacterium + -logy. ] (Biol.)

Defn: The science relating to bacteria.

BACTERIOLYSIS
Bac*te`ri*ol"y*sis, n. [NL.; fr. Gr. , , a staff +  a loosing.]

1. Chemical decomposition brought about by bacteria without the
addition of oxygen.

2.  The destruction or dissolution of bacterial cells. --
Bac*te`ri*o*lyt"ic (#), a.

BACTERIOSCOPIC
Bac*te`ri*o*scop"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to bacterioscopy; as, a bacterioscopic examination.

BACTERIOSCOPIST
Bac*te`ri*os"co*pist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: One skilled in bacterioscopic examinations.

BACTERIOSCOPY
Bac*te`ri*os"co*py, n. Etym: [Bacterium + -scopy ] (Biol.)

Defn: The application of a knowledge of bacteria for their detection
and identification, as in the examination of polluted water.

BACTERIUM
Bac*te"ri*um, n.; pl. Bacteria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr., , a staff: cf.
F. bactérie. ] (Biol.)

Defn: A microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algæ,
usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found in
putrefying organic infusions. Bacteria are destitute of chlorophyll,
and are the smallest of microscopic organisms. They are very widely
diffused in nature, and multiply with marvelous rapidity, both by
fission and by spores. Certain species are active agents in
fermentation, while others appear to be the cause of certain
infectious diseases. See Bacillus.

BACTEROID; BACTEROIDAL
Bac"te*roid, Bac`te*roid"al, a. Etym: [Bacterium + -oid.] (Biol.)

Defn: Resembling bacteria; as, bacteroid particles.

BACTRIAN
Bac"tri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Bactria in Asia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Bactria. Bactrian camel, the two-humped camel.

BACULE
Bac"ule, n. Etym: [F.] (Fort.)

Defn: See Bascule.

BACULINE
Bac"u*line, a. Etym: [L. baculum staff.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the rod or punishment with the rod.

BACULITE
Bac"u*lite, n. Etym: [L. baculune stick, staff; cf. F. baculite.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: A cephalopod of the extinct genus Baculites, found fossil in
the Cretaceous rocks. It is like an uncoiled ammonite.

BACULOMETRY
Bac`u*lom"e*try, n. Etym: [L. baculum staff + -metry]

Defn: Measurement of distance or altitude by a staff or staffs.

BAD
Bad, imp.

Defn: of Bid. Bade. [Obs.] Dryden.

BAD
Bad, a. [Compar. Worse; superl. Worst. ] Etym: [Probably fr. AS.
bæddel hermaphrodite; cf. bædling effeminate fellow.]

Defn: Wanting good qualities, whether physical or moral; injurious,
hurtful, inconvenient, offensive, painful, unfavorable, or defective,
either physically or morally; evil; vicious; wicked; -- the opposite
of good; as a bad man; bad conduct; bad habits; bad soil; bad health;
bad crop; bad news.

Note: Sometimes used substantively.
The strong antipathy of good to bad. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Pernicious; deleterious; noxious; baneful; injurious; hurtful;
evil; vile; wretched; corrupt; wicked; vicious; imperfect.

BADAUD
Ba`daud", n. [F.]

Defn: A person given to idle observation of everything, with wonder
or astonishment; a credulous or gossipy idler.

A host of stories . . . dealing chiefly with the subject of his great
wealth, an ever delightful topic to the badauds of Paris.
Pall Mall Mag.

BADDER
Bad"der,

Defn: compar. of Bad, a. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BADDERLOCKS
Bad"der*locks, n. Etym: [Perh. for Balderlocks, fr. Balder the
Scandinavian deity.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large black seaweed (Alaria esculenta) sometimes eaten in
Europe; -- also called murlins, honeyware, and henware.

BADDISH
Bad"dish, a.

Defn: Somewhat bad; inferior. Jeffrey.

BADE
Bade.

Defn: A form of the pat tense of Bid.

BADGE
Badge, n. Etym: [LL. bagea, bagia, sign, prob. of German origin; cf.
AS. beág, beáh, bracelet, collar, crown, OS b in comp., AS. b to bow,
bend, G. biegen. See Bow to bend.]

1. A distinctive mark, token, sign, or cognizance, worn on the
person; as, the badge of a society; the badge of a policeman. "Tax
gatherers, recognized by their official badges. " Prescott.

2. Something characteristic; a mark; a token.
Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge. Shak.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A carved ornament on the stern of a vessel, containing a window
or the representation of one.

BADGE
Badge, v. t.

Defn: To mark or distinguish with a badge.

BADGELESS
Badge"less, a.

Defn: Having no badge. Bp. Hall.

BADGER
Badg"er, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin; perh. fr. an old verb badge
to lay up provisions to sell again.]

Defn: An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; a
hawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who bought
grain in one place and sold it in another. [Now dialectic, Eng.]

BADGER
Badg"er, n. Etym: [OE. bageard, prob. fr. badge + -ard, in reference
to the white mark on its forehead. See Badge,n.]

1. A carnivorous quadruped of the genus Meles or of an allied genus.
It is a burrowing animal, with short, thick legs, and long claws on
the fore feet. One species (M. vulgaris), called also brock, inhabits
the north of Europe and Asia; another species (Taxidea Americana or
Labradorica) inhabits the northern parts of North America. See
Teledu.

2. A brush made of badgers' hair, used by artists. Badger dog.
(Zoöl.) See Dachshund.

BADGER
Badg"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Badgered (p. pr. & vb. n. Badgering.]
Etym: [For sense 1, see 2d Badger; for 2, see 1st Badger.]

1. To tease or annoy, as a badger when baited; to worry or irritate
persistently.

2. To beat down; to cheapen; to barter; to bargain.

BADGERER
Badg"er*er, n.

1. One who badgers.

2. A kind of dog used in badger baiting.

BADGER GAME
Badg"er game.

Defn: The method of blackmailing by decoying a person into a
compromising situation and extorting money by threats of exposure.
[Cant]

BADGERING
Badg"er*ing, n.

1. The act of one who badgers.

2. The practice of buying wheat and other kinds of food in one place
and selling them in another for a profit. [Prov. Eng.]

BADGER-LEGGED
Badg"er-legged`, a.

Defn: Having legs of unequal length, as the badger was thought to
have. Shak.

BADGER STATE
Badger State.

Defn: Wisconsin; -- a nickname.

BADIAGA
Bad`i*a"ga, n. Etym: [Russ. badiaga.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fresh-water sponge (Spongilla), common in the north of
Europe, the powder of which is used to take away the livid marks of
bruises.

BADIAN
Ba"di*an, n. Etym: [F.badiane, fr. Per. badian anise.] (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illicium
anisatum), and its aromatic seeds; Chinese anise; star anise.

BADIGEON
Ba*di"geon, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A cement or paste (as of plaster and freestone, or of sawdust
and glue or lime) used by sculptors, builders, and workers in wood or
stone, to fill holes, cover defects, or finish a surface.

BADINAGE
Ba`di`nage", n. Etym: [F., fr. badiner to joke, OF. to trifle, be
silly, fr. badin silly.]

Defn: Playful raillery; banter. "He . . . indulged himself only in an
elegant badinage." Warburton.

BAD LANDS
Bad" lands".

Defn: Barren regions, especially in the western United States, where
horizontal strata (Tertiary deposits) have been often eroded into
fantastic forms, and much intersected by canons, and where lack of
wood, water, and forage increases the difficulty of traversing the
country, whence the name, first given by the Canadian French,
Mauvaises Terres (bad lands).

BADLY
Bad"ly, adv.

Defn: In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly;
unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably;
seriously.

Note: Badly is often used colloquially for very much or very greatly,
with words signifying to want or need.

BADMINTON
Bad"min*ton, n. Etym: [From the name of the seat of the Duke of
Beaufort in England.]

1. A game, similar to lawn tennis, played with shuttlecocks.

2. A preparation of claret, spiced and sweetened.

BADNESS
Bad"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being bad.

BAENOMERE
Bæ"no*mere, n. Etym: [Gr. to walk + -mere.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the somites (arthromeres) that make up the thorax of
Arthropods. Packard.

BAENOPOD
Bæ"no*pod, n. Etym: [Gr. -pod.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the thoracic legs of Arthropods.

BAENOSOME
Bæ"no*some, n. Etym: [Gr. -some body.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The thorax of Arthropods. Packard.

BAETULUS
Bæ"tu*lus, n.; pl. Bætuli (#). [L., fr. Gr. bai`tylos a sacred
meteorite.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A meteorite, or similar rude stone artificially shaped, held
sacred or worshiped as of divine origin.

All the evidence goes to prove that these menhirs are bætuli, i. e.,
traditional and elementary images of the deity.
I. Gonino (Perrot & Chipiez).

BAFF
Baff, n.

Defn: A blow; a stroke. [Scot.] H. Miller.

BAFFLE
Baf"fle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Baffled (p. pr. & vb. n. Baffling (.]
Etym: [Cf. Lowland Scotch bauchle to treat contemptuously, bauch
tasteless, abashed, jaded, Icel. bagr uneasy, poor, or bagr, n.,
struggle, bægja to push, treat harshly, OF. beffler, beffer, to mock,
deceive, dial. G. bäppe mouth, beffen to bark, chide.]

1. To cause to undergo a disgraceful punishment, as a recreant
knight. [Obs.]
He by the heels him hung upon a tree, And baffled so, that all which
passed by The picture of his punishment might see. Spenser.

2. To check by shifts and turns; to elude; to foil.
The art that baffles time's tyrannic claim. Cowper.

3. To check by perplexing; to disconcert, frustrate, or defeat; to
thwart. "A baffled purpose." De Quincey.
A suitable scripture ready to repel and baffle them all. South.
Calculations so difficult as to have baffled, until within a . . .
recent period, the most enlightened nations. Prescott.
The mere intricacy of a question should not baffle us. Locke.
Baffling wind (Naut.), one that frequently shifts from one point to
another.

Syn.
 -- To balk; thwart; foil; frustrate; defeat.

BAFFLE
Baf"fle, v. i.

1. To practice deceit. [Obs.] Barrow.

2. To struggle against in vain; as, a ship baffles with the winds.
[R.]

BAFFLE
Baf"fle, n.

Defn: A defeat by artifice, shifts, and turns; discomfiture. [R.] "A
baffle to philosophy." South.

BAFFLEMENT
Baf"fle*ment, n.

Defn: The process or act of baffling, or of being baffled;
frustration; check.

BAFFLER
Baf"fler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, baffles.

BAFFLING
Baf"fling, a.

Defn: Frustrating; discomfiting; disconcerting; as, baffling
currents, winds, tasks.
 -- Bafflingly, adv.
 -- Bafflingness, n.

BAFFY
Baff"y (baf"y), n. [See Baff, v. t.] (Golf)

Defn: A short wooden club having a deeply concave face, seldom used.

BAFT
Baft. n.

Defn: Same as Bafta.

BAFTA
Baf"ta, n. Etym: [Cf. Per. baft. woven, wrought.]

Defn: A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India.
Also, an imitation of this fabric made for export.

BAG
Bag, n. Etym: [OE. bagge; cf. Icel. baggi, and also OF. bague,
bundle, LL. baga.]

1. A sack or pouch, used for holding anything; as, a bag of meal or
of money.

2. A sac, or dependent gland, in animal bodies, containing some fluid
or other substance; as, the bag of poison in the mouth of some
serpents; the bag of a cow.

3. A sort of silken purse formerly tied about men's hair behind, by
way of ornament. [Obs.]

4. The quantity of game bagged.

5. (Com.)

Defn: A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary to
carry to market in a sack; as, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag of
coffee. Bag and baggage, all that belongs to one.
 -- To give one the bag, to disappoint him. [Obs.] Bunyan.

BAG
Bag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bagged(p. pr. & vb. n. Bagging]

1. To put into a bag; as, to bag hops.

2. To seize, capture, or entrap; as, to bag an army; to bag game.

3. To furnish or load with a bag or with a well filled bag.
A bee bagged with his honeyed venom. Dryden.

BAG
Bag, v. i.

1. To swell or hang down like a full bag; as, the skin bags from
containing morbid matter.

2. To swell with arrogance. [Obs.] Chaucer.

3. To become pregnant. [Obs.] Warner. (Alb. Eng. ).

BAGASSE
Ba*gasse", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Sugar cane, as it

BAGATELLE
Bag`a*telle", n. Etym: [F., fr. It. bagatella; cf. Prov. It. bagata
trifle, OF. bague, Pr. bagua, bundle. See Bag, n.]

1. A trifle; a thing of no importance.
Rich trifles, serious bagatelles. Prior.

2. A game played on an oblong board, having, at one end, cups or
arches into or through which balls are to be driven by a rod held in
the hand of the player.

BAGGAGE
Bag"gage, n. Etym: [F. bagage, from OF. bague bungle. In senses 6 and
7 cf. F. bagasse a prostitute. See Bag, n.]

1. The clothes, tents, utensils, and provisions of an army.

Note: "The term itself is made to apply chiefly to articles of
clothing and to small personal effects." Farrow.

2. The trunks, valises, satchels, etc., which a traveler carries with
him on a journey; luggage.
The baronet's baggage on the roof of the coach. Thackeray.
We saw our baggage following below. Johnson.

Note: The English usually call this luggage.

3. Purulent matter. [Obs.] Barrough.

4. Trashy talk. [Obs.] Ascham.

5. A man of bad character. [Obs.] Holland.

6. A woman of loose morals; a prostitute.
A disreputable, daring, laughing, painted French baggage. Thackeray.

7. A romping, saucy girl. [Playful] Goldsmith.

BAGGAGE MASTER
Bag"gage mas`ter.

Defn: One who has charge of the baggage at a railway station or upon
a line of public travel. [U.S.]

BAGGAGER
Bag"ga*ger, n.

Defn: One who takes care of baggage; a camp follower. [Obs.] Sir W.
Raleigh.

BAGGALA
Bag"ga*la, n. Etym: [Ar. "fem. of baghl a mule." Balfour.] (Naut.)

Defn: A two-masted Arab or Indian trading vessel, used in Indian
Ocean.

BAGGILY
Bag"gi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a loose, baggy way.

BAGGING
Bag"ging, n.

1. Cloth or other material for bags.

2. The act of putting anything into, or as into, a bag.

3. The act of swelling; swelling.

BAGGING
Bag"ging, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: Reaping peas, beans, wheat, etc., with a chopping stroke.
[Eng.]

BAGGY
Bag"gy, a.

Defn: Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag;
flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks.

BAGMAN
Bag"man, n.; pl. Bagmen (.

Defn: A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders for
manufacturers and tradesmen. Thackeray.

BAG NET
Bag" net`.

Defn: A bag-shaped net for catching fish.

BAGNIO
Bagn"io, n. Etym: [It. bagno, fr. L. balneum. Cf. Bain.]

1. A house for bathing, sweating, etc.; -- also, in Turkey, a prison
for slaves. [Obs.]

2. A brothel; a stew; a house of prostitution.

BAGPIPE
Bag"pipe, n.

Defn: A musical wind instrument, now used chiefly in the Highlands of
Scotland.

Note: It consists of a leather bag, which receives the air by a tube
that is stopped by a valve; and three sounding pipes, into which the
air is pressed by the performer. Two of these pipes produce fixed
tones, namely, the bass, or key tone, and its fifth, and form
together what is called the drone; the third, or chanter, gives the
melody.

BAGPIPE
Bag"pipe, v. t.

Defn: To make to look like a bagpipe. To bagpipe the mizzen (Naut.),
to lay it aback by bringing the sheet to the mizzen rigging. Totten.

BAGPIPER
Bag"pip`er, n.

Defn: One who plays on a bagpipe; a piper. Shak.

BAGREEF
Bag"reef`, n. Etym: [Bag + reef.] (Naut.)

Defn: The lower reef of fore and aft sails; also, the upper reef of
topsails. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

BAGUE
Bague, n. Etym: [F., a ring] (Arch.)

Defn: The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaft
or clustered column into two or more parts.

BAGUET; BAGUETTE
Ba*guet", Ba*guette", n. Etym: [F. baguette, prop. a rodbacchetta,
fr. L. baculum, baculu stick, staff.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A small molding, like the astragal, but smaller; a bead.

2. (Zoöl)

Defn: One of the minute bodies seen in the divided nucleoli of some
Infusoria after conjugation.

BAGWIG
Bag"wig", n.

Defn: A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back of
the head in a bag.

BAGWORM
Bag"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of several lepidopterous insects which construct, in the
larval state, a baglike case which they carry about for protection.
One species (Platoeceticus Gloveri) feeds on the orange tree. See
Basket worm.

BAH
Bah, interj.

Defn: An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt.
Twenty-five years ago the vile ejaculation, Bah! was utterly unknown
to the English public. De Quincey.

BAHADUR; BAHAUDUR
Ba*ha"dur   Ba*hau"dur, n. [Written also bahawder.] [Hind. bahadur
hero, champion.]

Defn: A title of respect or honor given to European officers in East
Indian state papers, and colloquially, and among the natives, to
distinguished officials and other important personages.

BAHAI
Ba*hai" (ba*hi"), n.; pl. Bahais (-hiz).

Defn: A member of the sect of the Babis consisting of the adherents
of Baha (Mirza Husain Ali, entitled "Baha 'u 'llah," or, "the
Splendor of God"), the elder half brother of Mirza Yahya of Nur, who
succeeded the Bab as the head of the Babists. Baha in 1863 declared
himself the supreme prophet of the sect, and became its recognized
head. There are upwards of 20,000 Bahais in the United States.

BAHAISM
Ba*ha"ism, n.

Defn: The religious tenets or practices of the Bahais.

BAHAR
Ba*har", n. Etym: [Ar. bahar, from bahara to charge with a load.]

Defn: A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varying
considerably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625
pounds.

BAIGNE
Baigne, v. i. Etym: [F. baigner to bathe, fr. L. balneum bath.]

Defn: To soak or drench. [Obs.]

BAIGNOIRE
Bai`gnoire", n. [Written also baignoir.] [F., lit., bath tub.]

Defn: A box of the lowest tier in a theater.  Du Maurier.

BAIL
Bail, n. Etym: [F. baille a bucket, pail; cf. LL. bacula, dim. of
bacca a sort of vessel. Cf. Bac.]

Defn: A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat. [Obs.]
The bail of a canoe . . . made of a human skull. Capt. Cook.

BAIL
Bail, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bailed (p. pr. & vb. n. Bailing.]

1. To lade; to dip and throw; -- usually with out; as, to bail water
out of a boat.
Buckets . . . to bail out the water. Capt. J. Smith.

2. To dip or lade water from; -- often with out to express
completeness; as, to bail a boat.
By the help of a small bucket and our hats we bailed her out. R. H.
Dana, Jr.

BAIL
Bail, v. Etym: [OF. bailler to give, to deliver, fr. L. bajulare to
bear a burden, keep in custody, fr. bajulus

1. To deliver; to release. [Obs.]
Ne none there was to rescue her, ne none to bail. Spenser.

2. (Law)
(a) To set free, or deliver from arrest, or out of custody, on the
undertaking of some other person or persons that he or they will be
responsible for the appearance, at a certain day and place, of the
person bailed.

Note: The word is applied to the magistrate or the surety. The
magistrate bails (but admits to bail is commoner) a man when he
liberates him from arrest or imprisonment upon bond given with
sureties. The surety bails a person when he procures his release from
arrest by giving bond for his appearance. Blackstone.
(b) To deliver, as goods in trust, for some special object or
purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that the trust shall
be faithfully executed on the part of the bailee, or person
intrusted; as, to bail cloth to a tailor to be made into a garment;
to bail goods to a carrier. Blackstone. Kent.

BAIL
Bail, n. Etym: [OF. bail guardian, administrator, fr. L. bajulus. See
Bail to deliver.]

1. Custody; keeping. [Obs.]
Silly Faunus now within their bail. Spenser.

2. (Law)
(a) The person or persons who procure the release of a prisoner from
the custody of the officer, or from imprisonment, by becoming surely
for his appearance in court.
The bail must be real, substantial bondsmen. Blackstone.
A. and B. were bail to the arrest in a suit at law. Kent.

(b) The security given for the appearance of a prisoner in order to
obtain his release from custody of the officer; as, the man is out on
bail; to go bail for any one.
Excessive bail ought not to be required. Blackstone.

BAIL
Bail, n. Etym: [OE. beyl; cf. Dan. böile an bending, ring, hoop, Sw.
bögel, bygel, and Icel. beyla hump, swelling, akin to E. bow to
bend.]

1. The arched handle of a kettle, pail, or similar vessel, usually
movable. Forby.

2. A half hoop for supporting the cover of a carrier's wagon, awning
of a boat, etc.

BAIL
Bail, n. Etym: [OF. bail, baille. See Bailey.]

1. (Usually pl.)

Defn: A line of palisades serving as an exterior defense. [Written
also bayle.] [Obs.]

2. The outer wall of a feudal castle. Hence: The space inclosed by
it; the outer court. Holinshed.

3. A certain limit within a forest. [Eng.]

4. A division for the stalls of an open stable.

5. (Cricket)

Defn: The top or cross piece ( or either of the two cross pieces) of
the wicket.

BAILABLE
Bail"a*ble, a.

1. Having the right or privilege of being admitted to bail, upon bond
with sureties; -- used of persons. "He's bailable, I'm sure." Ford.

2. Admitting of bail; as, a bailable offense.

3. That can be delivered in trust; as, bailable goods.

BAIL BOND
Bail" bond`. (Law)
(a) A bond or obligation given by a prisoner and his surety, to
insure the prisoner's appearance in court, at the return of the writ.
(b) Special bail in court to abide the judgment. Bouvier.

BAILEE
Bail`ee", n. Etym: [OF. baillé, p.p. of bailler. See Bail to
deliver.] (Law)

Defn: The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has a
temporary possession and a qualified property in them, for the
purposes of the trust. Blackstone.

Note: In penal statutes the word includes those who receive goods for
another in good faith. Wharton.

BAILER
Bail"er, n. (Law)

Defn: See Bailor.

BAILER
Bail"er, n.

1. One who bails or lades.

2. A utensil, as a bucket or cup, used in bailing; a machine for
bailing water out of a pit.

BAILEY
Bai"ley, n. Etym: [The same word as bail line of palisades; cf. LL.
ballium bailey, OF. bail, baille, a palisade, baillier to inclose,
shut.]

1. The outer wall of a feudal castle. [Obs.]

2. The space immediately within the outer wall of a castle or
fortress. [Obs.]

3. A prison or court of justice; -- used in certain proper names; as,
the Old Bailey in London; the New Bailey in Manchester. [Eng.] Oxf.
Gloss.

BAILIE
Bail"ie, n. Etym: [See Bailiff.]

Defn: An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded to
that of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman.

BAILIFF
Bail"iff, n. Etym: [OF. baillif, F. bailli, custodiabajulus porter.
See Bail to deliver.]

1. Originally, a person put in charge of something especially, a
chief officer, magistrate, or keeper, as of a county, town, hundred,
or castle; one to whom power Abbott.
Lausanne is under the canton of Berne, governed by a bailiff sent
every three years from the senate. Addison.

2. (Eng. Law)

Defn: A sheriff's deputy, appointed to make arrests, collect fines,
summon juries, etc.

Note: In American law the term bailiff is seldom used except
sometimes to signify a sheriff's officer or constable, or a party
liable to account to another for the rent and profits of real estate.
Burrill.

3. An overseer or under steward of an estate, who directs husbandry
operations, collects rents, etc. [Eng.]

BAILIFFWICK
Bail"iff*wick, n.

Defn: See Bailiwick. [Obs.]

BAILIWICK
Bail"i*wick, n. Etym: [Bailie, bailiff + wick a village.] (Law)

Defn: The precincts within which a bailiff has jurisdiction; the
limits of a bailiff's authority.

BAILLIE
Bail"lie, n.

1. Bailiff. [Obs.]

2. Same as Bailie. [Scot.]

BAILMENT
Bail"ment, n.

1. (Law)

Defn: The action of bailing a person accused.
Bailment . . . is the saving or delivery of a man out of prison
before he hath satisfied the law. Dalton.

2. (Law)

Defn: A delivery of goods or money by one person to another in trust,
for some special purpose, upon a contract, expressed or implied, that
the trust shall be faithfully executed. Blackstone.

Note: In a general sense it is sometimes used as comprehending all
duties in respect to property. Story.

BAILOR
Bail`or", n. (Law)

Defn: One who delivers goods or money to another in trust.

BAILPIECE
Bail"piece`, n. (Law)

Defn: A piece of parchment, or paper, containing a recognizance or
bail bond.

BAILY'S BEADS
Bai"ly's beads. (Astron.)

Defn: A row of bright spots observed in connection with total
eclipses of the sun. Just before and after a total eclipse, the
slender, unobscured crescent of the sun's disk appears momentarily
like a row of bright spots resembling a string of beads. The
phenomenon (first fully described by Francis Baily, 1774 -- 1844) is
thought to be an effect of irradiation, and of inequalities of the
moon's edge.

BAIN
Bain, n. Etym: [F. bain, fr. L. balneum. Cf. Bagnio.]

Defn: A bath; a bagnio. [Obs.] Holland.

BAIN-MARIE
Bain`-ma`rie", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A vessel for holding hot water in which another vessel may be
heated without scorching its contents; -- used for warming or
preparing food or pharmaceutical preparations.

BAIRAM
Bai"ram, n. Etym: [Turk. baïram.]

Defn: The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held at
the close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy days
after the fast.

BAIRN
Bairn, n. Etym: [Scot. bairn, AS. bearn, fr. beran to bear; akin to
Icel., OS., &Goth. barn. See Bear to support.]

Defn: A child. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
Has he not well provided for the bairn ! Beau. & Fl.

BAISEMAINS
Baise"mains`, n. pl. Etym: [F., fr. baiser to kiss + mains hands.]

Defn: Respects; compliments. [Obs.]

BAIT
Bait, n. Etym: [Icel. beita food, beit pasture, akin to AS. bat food,
Sw. bete. See Bait, v. i.]

1. Any substance, esp. food, used in catching fish, or other animals,
by alluring them to a hook, snare, inclosure, or net.

2. Anything which allures; a lure; enticement; temptation. Fairfax.

3. A portion of food or drink, as a refreshment taken on a journey;
also, a stop for rest and refreshment.

4. A light or hasty luncheon. Bait bug (Zoöl), a crustacean of the
genus Hippa found burrowing in sandy beaches. See Anomura.

BAIT
Bait, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Baited; p. pr. & vb. n. Baiting.] Etym:
[OE. baiten, beit, to feed, harass, fr. Icel. beita, orig. to cause
to bite, fr. bita. sq. root87. See Bite.]

1. To provoke and harass; esp., to harass or torment for sport; as,
to bait a bear with dogs; to bait a bull.

2. To give a portion of food and drink to, upon the road; as, to bait
horses. Holland.

3. To furnish or cover with bait, as a trap or hook.
A crooked pin . . . bailed with a vile earthworm. W. Irving.

BAIT
Bait, v. i.

Defn: To stop to take a portion of food and drink for refreshment of
one's self or one's beasts, on a journey.
Evil news rides post, while good news baits. Milton.
My lord's coach conveyed me to Bury, and thence baiting aEvelyn.

BAIT
Bait, v. i. Etym: [F. battre de l'aile (or des ailes), to flap
oBatter, v. i.]

Defn: To flap the wings; to flutter as if to fly; or to hover, as a
hawk when she stoops to her prey. "Kites that bait and beat." Shak.

BAITER
Bait"er, n.

Defn: One who baits; a tormentor.

BAIZE
Baize, n. Etym: [For bayes, pl. fr. OF. baie; cf. F. bai bay-colored.
See Bay a color.]

Defn: A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain
colors.
A new black baize waistcoat lined with silk. Pepys.

BAJOCCO
Ba*joc"co, n. Etym: [It., fr. bajo brown, bay, from its color.]

Defn: A small cooper coin formerly current in the Roman States, worth
about a cent and a half.

BAKE
Bake, v. t. [imp.& p. p. Baked; p. pr. & vb. n. Baking.] Etym: [AS.
bacan; akin to D. bakken, OHG. bacchan, G. backen, Icel. & Sw. baca,
Dan. bage, Gr.

1. To prepare, as food, by cooking in a dry heat, either in an oven
or under coals, or on heated stone or metal; as, to bake bread, meat,
apples.

Note: Baking is the term usually applied to that method of cooking
which exhausts the moisture in food more than roasting or broiling;
but the distinction of meaning between roasting and baking is not
always observed.

2. To dry or harden (anything) by subjecting to heat, as, to bake
bricks; the sun bakes the ground.

3. To harden by cold.
The earth . . . is baked with frost. Shak.
They bake their sides upon the cold, hard stone. Spenser.

BAKE
Bake, v. i.

1. To do the work of baking something; as, she brews, washes, and
bakes. Shak.

2. To be baked; to become dry and hard in heat; as, the bread bakes;
the ground bakes in the hot sun.

BAKE
Bake, n.

Defn: The process, or result, of baking.

BAKEHOUSE
Bake"house`, n. Etym: [AS. bæch. See Bak, v. i., and House.]

Defn: A house for baking; a bakery.

BAKEMEAT; BAKED-MEAT
Bake"meat`, Baked"-meat`, n.

Defn: A pie; baked food. [Obs.] Gen. xl. 17. Shak.

BAKEN
Bak"en,

Defn: p. p. of Bake. [Obs. or. Archaic]

BAKER
Bak"er, n. Etym: [AS. bæcere. See Bake, v. i.]

1. One whose business it is to bake bread, biscuit, etc.

2. A portable oven in which baking is done. [U.S.] A baker's dozen,
thirteen.
 -- Baker foot, a distorted foot. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
 -- Baker's itch, a rash on the back of the hand, caused by the
irritating properties of yeast.
 -- Baker's salt, the subcarbonate of ammonia, sometimes used instead
of soda, in making bread.

BAKER-LEGGED
Bak"er-legged`, a.

Defn: Having legs that bend inward at the knees.

BAKERY
Bak"er*y, n.

1. The trade of a baker. [R.]

2. The place for baking bread; a bakehouse.

BAKING
Bak"ing, n.

1. The act or process of cooking in an oven, or of drying and
hardening by heat or cold.

2. The quantity baked at once; a batch; as, a baking of bread. Baking
powder, a substitute for yeast, usually consisting of an acid, a
carbonate, and a little farinaceous matter.

BAKINGLY
Bak"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a hot or baking manner.

BAKISTRE
Bak"is*tre, n. Etym: [See Baxter.]

Defn: A baker. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BAKSHEESH; BAKSHISH
Bak"sheesh`, Bak"shish`, n.

Defn: Same as Backsheesh.

BALAAM
Ba"laam, n.

Defn: A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out a
newspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's ass
speaking. Numb. xxii. 30. [Cant] Balaam basket or box (Print.), the
receptacle for rejected articles. Blackw. Mag.

BALACHONG
Bal"a*chong, n. Etym: [Malay balachan.]

Defn: A condiment formed of small fishes or shrimps, pounded up with
salt and spices, and then dried. It is much esteemed in China.

BALAENOIDEA
Bal`æ*noi"de*a, n. Etym: [NL., from L. balaena whale + -oid.] (Zoöl)

Defn: A division of the Cetacea, including the right whale and all
other whales having the mouth fringed with baleen. See Baleen.

BALANCE
Bal"ance, n. Etym: [OE. balaunce, F. balance, fr. L. bilan, bilancis,
having two scales; bis twice (akin to E. two) + lanx plate, scale.]

1. An apparatus for weighing.

Note: In its simplest form, a balance consists of a beam or lever
supported exactly in the middle, having two scales or basins of equal
weight suspended from its extremities. Another form is that of the
Roman balance, our steelyard, consisting of a lever or beam,
suspended near one of its extremities, on the longer arm of which a
counterpoise slides. The name is also given to other forms of
apparatus for weighing bodies, as to the combinations of levers
making up platform scales; and even to devices for weighing by the
elasticity of a spring.

2. Act of weighing mentally; comparison; estimate.
A fair balance of the advantages on either side. Atterbury.

3. Equipoise between the weights in opposite scales.

4. The state of being in equipoise; equilibrium; even adjustment;
steadiness.
And hung a bottle on each side To make his balance true. Cowper.
The order and balance of the country were destroyed. Buckle.
English workmen completely lose their balance. J. S. Mill.

5. An equality between the sums total of the two sides of an account;
as, to bring one's accounts to a balance; -- also, the excess on
either side; as, the balance of an account. " A balance at the
banker's. " Thackeray.
I still think the balance of probabilities leans towards the account
given in the text. J. Peile.

6. (Horol.)

Defn: A balance wheel, as of a watch, or clock. See Balance wheel (in
the Vocabulary).

7. (Astron.)
(a) The constellation Libra.
(b) The seventh sign in the Zodiac, called Libra, which the sun
enters at the equinox in September.

8. A movement in dancing. See Balance, v. i., S. Balance
electrometer, a kind of balance, with a poised beam, which indicates,
by weights suspended from one arm, the mutual attraction of
oppositely electrified surfaces. Knight.
 -- Balance fish. (Zoöl) See Hammerhead.
 -- Balance knife, a carving or table knife the handle of which
overbalances the blade, and so keeps it from contact with the table.
 -- Balance of power. (Politics), such an adjustment of power among
sovereign states that no one state is in a position to interfere with
the independence of the others; international equilibrium; also, the
ability ( of a state or a third party within a state) to control the
relations between sovereign states or between dominant parties in a
state.
 -- Balance sheet (Bookkeeping), a paper showing the balances of the
open accounts of a business, the debit and credit balances footing up
equally, if the system of accounts be complete and the balances
correctly taken.
 -- Balance thermometer, a thermometer mounted as a balance so that
the movement of the mercurial column changes the indication of the
tube. With the aid of electrical or mechanical devices adapted to it,
it is used for the automatic regulation of the temperature of rooms
warmed artificially, and as a fire alarm.
 -- Balance of torsion. See Torsion Balance.
 -- Balance of trade (Pol. Econ.), an equilibrium between the money
values of the exports and imports of a country; or more commonly, the
amount required on one side or the other to make such an equilibrium.
 -- Balance valve, a valve whose surfaces are so arranged that the
fluid pressure tending to seat, and that tending to unseat the valve,
are nearly in equilibrium; esp., a puppet valve which is made to
operate easily by the admission of steam to both sides. See Puppet
valve.
 -- Hydrostatic balance. See under Hydrostatic.
 -- To lay in balance, to put up as a pledge or security. [Obs.]
Chaucer.
 -- To strike a balance, to find out the difference between the debit
and credit sides of an account.

BALANCE
Bal"ance, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Balanced (p. pr. & vb. n. Balancing (
Etym: [From Balance, n.: cf. F. balancer. ]

1. To bring to an equipoise, as the scales of a balance by adjusting
the weights; to weigh in a balance.

2. To support on a narrow base, so as to keep from falling; as, to
balance a plate on the end of a cane; to balance one's self on a
tight rope.

3. To equal in number, weight, force, or proportion; to counterpoise,
counterbalance, counteract, or neutralize.
One expression . . . must check and balance another. Kent.

4. To compare in relative force, importance, value, etc.; to
estimate.
Balance the good and evil of things. L'Estrange.

5. To settle and adjust, as an account; to make two accounts equal by
paying the difference between them.
I am very well satisfied that it is not in my power to balance
accounts with my Maker. Addison.

6. To make the sums of the debits and credits of an account equal; --
said of an item; as, this payment, or credit, balances the account.

7. To arrange accounts in such a way that the sum total of the debits
is equal to the sum total of the credits; as, to balance a set of
books.

8. (Dancing)

Defn: To move toward, and then back from, reciprocally; as, to
balance partners.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: To contract, as a sail, into a narrower compass; as, to balance
the boom mainsail. Balanced valve. See Balance valve, under Balance,
n.

Syn.
 -- To poise; weigh; adjust; counteract; neutralize; equalize.

BALANCE
Bal"ance, v. i.

1. To have equal weight on each side; to be in equipoise; as, the
scales balance.

2. To fluctuate between motives which appear of equal force; to
waver; to hesitate.
He would not balance or err in the determination of his choice.
Locke.

3. (Dancing)

Defn: To move toward a person or couple, and then back.

BALANCEABLE
Bal"ance*a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as can be balanced.

BALANCEMENT
Bal"ance*ment, n.

Defn: The act or result of balancing or adjusting; equipoise; even
adjustment of forces. [R.] Darwin.

BALANCER
Bal"an*cer, n.

1. One who balances, or uses a balance.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: In Diptera, the rudimentary posterior wing.

BALANCEREEF
Bal"ance*reef`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The last reef in a fore-and-aft sail, taken to steady the ship.

BALANCE WHEEL
Bal"ance wheel`.

1. (Horology)
(a) A wheel which regulates the beats or pulses of a watch or
chronometer, answering to the pendulum of a clock; -- often called
simply a balance.
(b) A ratchet-shaped scape wheel, which in some watches is acted upon
by the axis of the balance wheel proper (in those watches called a
balance).

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A wheel which imparts regularity to the movements of any engine
or machine; a fly wheel.

BALANIFEROUS
Bal`a*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. balanus acorn + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing or producing acorns.

BALANITE
Bal"a*nite, n. Etym: [L. balanus acorn: cf. F. balanite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil balanoid shell.

BALANOGLOSSUS
Bal`a*no*glos"sus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl)

Defn: A peculiar marine worm. See Enteropneusta, and Tornaria.

BALANOID
Bal"a*noid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Resembling an acorn; -- applied to a group of barnacles having
shells shaped like acorns. See Acornshell, and Barnacle.

BALAS RUBY
Bal"as ru`by. Etym: [OE. bales, balais, F. balais, LL. balascus, fr.
Ar. balakhsh, so called from Badakhshan, Balashan, or Balaxiam, a
place in the neighborhood of Samarcand, where this ruby is found.]
(Min.)

Defn: A variety of spinel ruby, of a pale rose red, or inclining to
orange. See Spinel.

BALATA
Bal"a*ta, n. [Sp., prob. fr. native name.]

1.

Defn: A West Indian sapotaceous tree (Bumelia retusa).

2.  The bully tree (Minusops globosa); also, its milky juice (balata
gum), which when dried constitutes an elastic gum called chicle, or
chicle gum.

BALAUSTINE
Ba*laus"tine, n. Etym: [L. balaustium, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The pomegranate tree (Punica granatum). The bark of the root,
the rind of the fruit, and the flowers are used medicinally.

BALAYEUSE
Ba`la`yeuse", n. [F., lit., a female sweeper.]

Defn: A protecting ruffle or frill, as of silk or lace, sewed close
to the lower edge of a skirt on the inside.

BALBUTIATE; BALBUCINATE
Bal*bu"ti*ate, Bal*bu"ci*nate, v. i. Etym: [L. balbutire, fr. balbus
stammering: cf. F. balbutier.]

Defn: To stammer. [Obs.]

BALBUTIES
Bal*bu"ti*es, n. (Med.)

Defn: The defect of stammering; also, a kind of incomplete
pronunciation.

BALCON
Bal"con, n.

Defn: A balcony. [Obs.] Pepys.

BALCONIED
Bal"co*nied, a.

Defn: Having balconies.

BALCONY
Bal"co*ny, n.; pl. Balconies. Etym: [It. balcone; cf. It. balco,
palco, scaffold, fr. OHG. balcho, pa, beam, G. balken. See Balk
beam.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A platform projecting from the wall of a building, usually
resting on brackets or consoles, and inclosed by a parapet; as, a
balcony in front of a window. Also, a projecting gallery in places of
amusement; as, the balcony in a theater.

2. A projecting gallery once common at the stern of large ships.

Note: "The accent has shifted from the second to the first syllable
within these twenty years." Smart (1836).

BALD
Bald, a. Etym: [OE. balled, ballid, perh. the p.p. of ball to reduce
to the roundness or smoothness of a ball, by removing hair. sq.
root85. But cf. W. bali whiteness in a horse's forehead.]

1. Destitute of the natural or common covering on the head or top, as
of hair, feathers, foliage, trees, etc.; as, a bald head; a bald oak.
On the bald top of an eminence. Wordsworth.

2. Destitute of ornament; unadorned; bare; literal.
In the preface to his own bald translation. Dryden.

3. Undisguised. " Bald egotism." Lowell.

4. Destitute of dignity or value; paltry; mean. [Obs.]

5. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of a beard or awn; as, bald wheat.

6. (Zoöl.)
(a) Destitute of the natural covering.
(b) Marked with a white spot on the head; bald-faced. Bald buzzard
(Zoöl.), the fishhawk or osprey.
 -- Bald coot (Zoöl.), a name of the European coot (Fulica atra),
alluding to the bare patch on the front of the head.

BALDACHIN
Bal"da*chin, n. Etym: [LL. baldachinus, baldechinus, a canopy of rich
silk carried over the host; fr. Bagdad, It. Baldacco, a city in
Turkish Asia from whence these rich silks came: cf. It. baldacchino.
Cf. Baudekin.]

1. A rich brocade; baudekin. [Obs.]

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A structure in form of a canopy, sometimes supported by
columns, and sometimes suspended from the roof or projecting from the
wall; generally placed over an altar; as, the baldachin in St.
Peter's.

3. A portable canopy borne over shrines, etc., in procession.
[Written also baldachino, baldaquin, etc.]

BALD EAGLE
Bald" ea"gle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The white-headed eagle (Haliæetus leucocephalus) of America.
The young, until several years old, lack the white feathers on the
head.

Note: The bald eagle is represented in the coat of arms, and on the
coins, of the United States.

BALDER
Bal"der, n. Etym: [Icel. Baldr, akin to E. bold.] (Scan. Myth.)

Defn: The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace;
the son of Odin and Freya. [Written also Baldur.]

BALDERDASH
Bal"der*dash, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin: cf. Dan. balder noise,
clatter, and E. dash; hence, perhaps, unmeaning noise, then
hodgepodge, mixture; or W. baldorduss a prattling, baldordd,
baldorddi, to prattle.]

1. A worthless mixture, especially of liquors.
Indeed beer, by a mixture of wine, hath lost both name and nature,
and is called balderdash. Taylor (Drink and Welcome).

2. Senseless jargon; ribaldry; nonsense; trash.

BALDERDASH
Bal"der*dash, v. t.

Defn: To mix or adulterate, as liquors.
The wine merchants of Nice brew and balderdash, and even mix it with
pigeon's dung and quicklime. Smollett.

BALD-FACED
Bald"-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a white face or a white mark on the face, as a stag.

BALDHEAD
Bald"head`, n.

1. A person whose head is bald. 2 Kings ii. 23.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A white-headed variety of pigeon.

BALDHEADED
Bald"head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a bald head.

BALDLY
Bald"ly, adv.

Defn: Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly.

BALDNESS
Bald"ness, n.

Defn: The state or condition of being bald; as, baldness of the head;
baldness of style.
This gives to their syntax a peculiar character of simplicity and
baldness. W. D. Whitney.

BALDPATE
Bald"pate`, n.

1. A baldheaded person. Shak.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American widgeon (Anas Americana).

BALDPATE; BALDPATED
Bald"pate`, Bald"pat`ed, a.

Defn: Destitute of hair on the head; baldheaded. Shak.

BALDRIB
Bald"rib`, n.

Defn: A piece of pork cut lower down than the sparerib, and destitute
of fat. [Eng.] Southey.

BALDRIC
Bal"dric, n. Etym: [OE. baudric, bawdrik, through OF. (cf. F.
baudrier and LL. baldringus, baldrellus), from OHG. balderich, cf.
balz, palz, akin to E. belt. See Belt, n.]

Defn: A broad belt, sometimes richly ornamented, worn over one
shoulder, across the breast, and under the opposite arm; less
properly, any belt. [Also spelt bawdrick.]
A radiant baldric o'er his shoulder tied Sustained the sword that
glittered at his side. Pope.

BALDWIN
Bald"win, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of reddish, moderately acid, winter apple. [U.S.]

BALE
Bale, n. Etym: [OE. bale, OF. bale, F. balle, LL. bala, fr. OHG.
balla, palla, pallo, G. ball, balle, ballen, ball round pack; cf. D.
baal. Cf. Ball a round body.]

Defn: A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded for
storage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw Bale of dice, a
pair of dice. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BALE
Bale, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Baled (p. pr. & vb. n. Baling.]

Defn: To make up in a bale. Goldsmith.

BALE
Bale, v. t.

Defn: See Bail, v. t., to lade.

BALE
Bale, n. Etym: [AS. bealo, bealu, balu; akin to OS. , OHG. balo,
Icel. böl, Goth. balweins.]

1. Misery;
Let now your bliss be turned into bale. Spenser.

2. Evil; an evil, pernicious influence; something causing great
injury. [Now chiefly poetic]

BALEARIC
Bal`e*ar"ic, a. Etym: [L. Balearicus, fr. Gr. the Balearic Islands.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the isles of Majorca, Minorca, Ivica, etc.,
in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Valencia. Balearic crane.
(Zoöl.) See Crane.

BALEEN
Ba*leen", n. Etym: [F. baleine whale and whalibone, L. balaena a
whale; cf. Gr. . ] (Zoöl. & Com.)

Defn: Plates or blades of "whalebone," from two to twelve feet long,
and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balænoidea) are
attached side by side along the upper jaw, and form a fringelike
sieve by which the food is retained in the mouth.

BALEFIRE
Bale"fire`, n. Etym: [AS. b the fire of the b fire, flame (akin to
Icel. bal, OSlav. b, white, Gr. bright, white, Skr. bhala brightness)
+ f, E. fire.]

Defn: A signal fire; an alarm fire.
Sweet Teviot! on thy silver tide The glaring balefires blaze no more.
Sir W. Scott.

BALEFUL
Bale"ful, a. Etym: [AS. bealoful. See Bale misery.]

1. Full of deadly or pernicious influence; destructive. "Baleful
enemies." Shak.
Four infernal rivers that disgorge Into the burning lake their
baleful streams. Milton.

2. Full of grief or sorrow; woeful; sad. [Archaic]

BALEFULLY
Bale"ful*ly, adv.

Defn: In a baleful manner; perniciously.

BALEFULNESS
Bale"ful*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being baleful.

BALISAUR
Bal"i*sa`ur, n. Etym: [Hind.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A badgerlike animal of India (Arcionyx collaris).

BALISTER
Bal"is*ter, n. Etym: [OF. balestre. See Ballista.]

Defn: A crossbow. [Obs.] Blount.

BALISTOID
Bal"is*toid, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Like a fish of the genus Balistes; of the family Balistidæ. See
Filefish.

BALISTRARIA
Bal`is*tra"ri*a, n. Etym: [LL.] (Anc. Fort.)

Defn: A narrow opening, often cruciform, through which arrows might
be discharged.

BALIZE
Ba*lize", n. Etym: [F. balise; cf. Sp. balisa.]

Defn: A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark.

BALK
Balk, n. Etym: [AS. balca beam, ridge; akin to Icel. balkr partition,
bjalki beam, OS. balko, G. balken; cf. Gael. balc ridge of earth
between two furrows. Cf. Balcony, Balk, v. i., 3d Bulk.]

1. A ridge of land left unplowed between furrows, or at the end of a
field; a piece missed by the plow slipping aside.
Bad plowmen made balks of such ground. Fuller.

2. A great beam, rafter, or timber; esp., the tie-beam of a house.
The loft above was called "the balks."
Tubs hanging in the balks. Chaucer.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: One of the beams connecting the successive supports of a
trestle bridge or bateau bridge.

4. A hindrance or disappointment; a check.
A balk to the confidence of the bold undertaker. South.

5. A sudden and obstinate stop; a failure.

6. (Baseball)

Defn: A deceptive gesture of the pitcher, as if to deliver the ball.
Balk line (Billiards), a line across a billiard table near one end,
marking a limit within which the cue balls are placed in beginning a
game; also, a line around the table, parallel to the sides, used in
playing a particular game, called the balk line game.

BALK
Balk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Balked (p. pr. & vb. n. Balking.] Etym:
[From Balk a beam; orig. to put a balk or beam in one's way, in order
to stop or hinder. Cf., for sense 2, AS. on balcan legan to lay in
heaps.]

1. To leave or make balks in. [Obs.] Gower.

2. To leave heaped up; to heap up in piles. [Obs.]
Ten thousand bold Scots, two and twenty knights, Balk'd in their own
blood did Sir Walter see. Shak.

3. To omit, miss, or overlook by chance. [Obs.]

4. To miss intentionally; to avoid; to shun; to refuse; to let go by;
to shirk. [Obs. or Obsolescent]
By reason of the contagion then in London, we balked the Evelyn.
Sick he is, and keeps his bed, and balks his meat. Bp. Hall.
Nor doth he any creature balk, But lays on all he meeteth. Drayton.

5. To disappoint; to frustrate; to foil; to baffle; to as, to balk
expectation.
They shall not balk my entrance. Byron.

BALK
Balk, v. i.

1. To engage in contradiction; to be in opposition. [Obs.]
In strifeful terms with him to balk. Spenser.

2. To stop abruptly and stand still obstinately; to jib; to stop
short; to swerve; as, the horse balks.

Note: This has been regarded as an Americanism, but it occurs in
Spenser's "Faërie Queene," Book IV., 10, xxv.
Ne ever ought but of their true loves talkt, Ne ever for rebuke or
blame of any balkt.

BALK
Balk, v. i. Etym: [Prob. from D. balken to bray, bawl.]

Defn: To indicate to fishermen, by shouts or signals from shore, the
direction taken by the shoals of herring.

BALKER
Balk"er, n. Etym: [See 2d Balk.]

Defn: One who, or that which balks.

BALKER
Balk"er, n. Etym: [See last Balk.]

Defn: A person who stands on a rock or eminence to espy the shoals of
herring, etc., and to give notice to the men in boats which way they
pass; a conder; a huer.

BALKINGLY
Balk"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In manner to balk or frustrate.

BALKISH
Balk"ish, a.

Defn: Uneven; ridgy. [R.] Holinshed.

BALKY
Balk"y, a.

Defn: Apt to balk; as, a balky horse.

BALL
Ball, n. Etym: [OE. bal, balle; akin to OHG. balla, palla, G. ball,
Icel. böllr, ball; cf. F. balle. Cf. 1st Bale, n., Pallmall.]

1. Any round or roundish body or mass; a sphere or globe; as, a ball
of twine; a ball of snow.

2. A spherical body of any substance or size used to play with, as by
throwing, knocking, kicking, etc.

3. A general name for games in which a ball is thrown, kicked, or
knocked. See Baseball, and Football.

4. Any solid spherical, cylindrical, or conical projectile of lead or
iron, to be discharged from a firearm; as, a cannon ball; a rifball;
-- often used collectively; as, powder and ball. Spherical balls for
the smaller firearms are commonly called bullets.

5. (Pirotechnics & Mil.)

Defn: A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled with
combustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or to
produce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball.

6. (Print.)

Defn: A leather-covered cushion, fastened to a handle called a
ballstock; -- formerly used by printers for inking the form, but now
superseded by the roller.

7. A roundish protuberant portion of some part of the body; as, the
ball of the thumb; the ball of the foot.

8. (Far.)

Defn: A large pill, a form in which medicine is commonly given to
horses; a bolus. White.

9. The globe or earth. Pope.
Move round the dark terrestrial ball. Addison.
Ball and socket joint, a joint in which a ball moves within a socket,
so as to admit of motion in every direction within certain limits.
 -- Ball bearings, a mechanical device for lessening the friction of
axle bearings by means of small loose metal balls.
 -- Ball cartridge, a cartridge containing a ball, as distinguished
from a blank cartridge, containing only powder.
 -- Ball cock, a faucet or valve which is opened or closed by the
fall or rise of a ball floating in water at the end of a lever.
 -- Ball gudgeon, a pivot of a spherical form, which permits lateral
deflection of the arbor or shaft, while retaining the pivot in its
socket. Knight.
 -- Ball lever, the lever used in a ball cock.
 -- Ball of the eye, the eye itself, as distinguished from its lids
and socket; -- formerly, the pupil of the eye.
 -- Ball valve (Mach.), a contrivance by which a ball, placed in a
circular cup with a hole in its bottom, operates as a valve.
 -- Ball vein (Mining), a sort of iron ore, found in loose masses of
a globular form, containing sparkling particles.
 -- Three balls, or Three golden balls, a pawnbroker's sign or shop.

Syn.
 -- See Globe.

BALL
Ball, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Balled (p. pr. & vb. n. Balling.]

Defn: To gather balls which cling to the feet, as of damp snow or
clay; to gather into balls; as, the horse balls; the snow balls.

BALL
Ball, v. t.

1. (Metal.)

Defn: To heat in a furnace and form into balls for rolling.

2. To form or wind into a ball; as, to ball cotton.

BALL
Ball, n. Etym: [F. bal, fr. OF. baler to dance, fr. LL. ballare. Of
uncertain origin; cf. Gr. to toss or throw, or , , to leap, bound, to
dance, jump about; or cf. 1st Ball, n.]

Defn: A social assembly for the purpose of dancing.

BALLAD
Bal"lad, n. Etym: [OE. balade, OF. balade, F. ballade, fr. Pr.
ballada a dancing song, fr. ballare to dance; cf. It. ballata. See 2d
Ball, n., and Ballet.]

Defn: A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation or
singing; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental or
romantic poem in short stanzas.

BALLAD
Bal"lad, v. i.

Defn: To make or sing ballads. [Obs.]

BALLAD
Bal"lad, v. t.

Defn: To make mention of in ballads. [Obs.]

BALLADE
Bal*lade", n. Etym: [See Ballad, n.]

Defn: A form of French versification, sometimes imitated in English,
in which three or four rhymes recur through three stanzas of eight or
ten lines each, the stanzas concluding with a refrain, and the whole
poem with an envoy.

BALLADER
Bal"lad*er, n.

Defn: A writer of ballads.

BALLAD MONGER
Bal"lad mon`ger. Etym: [See Monger.]

Defn: A seller or maker of ballads; a poetaster. Shak.

BALLADRY
Bal"lad*ry, n. Etym: [From Ballad, n. ]

Defn: Ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads. "Base balladry
is so beloved." Drayton.

BALLAHOO; BALLAHOU
Bal"la*hoo, Bal"la*hou, n.

Defn: A fast-sailing schooner, used in the Bermudas and West Indies.

BALLARAG
Bal"la*rag, v. i. Etym: [Corrupted fr. bullirag.]

Defn: To bully; to threaten. [Low] T. Warton.

BALLAST
Bal"last, n. Etym: [D. ballast; akin to Dan. baglast, ballast, OSw.
barlast, Sw. ballast. The first part is perh. the same word as E.
bare, adj.; the second is last a burden, and hence the meaning a
bare, or mere, load. See Bare, a., and Last load.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: Any heavy substance, as stone, iron, etc., put into the hold to
sink a vessel in the water to such a depth as to prevent capsizing.

2. Any heavy matter put into the car of a balloon to give it
steadiness.

3. Gravel, broken stone, etc., laid in the bed of a railroad to make
it firm and solid.

4. The larger solids, as broken stone or gravel, used in making
concrete.

5. Fig.: That which gives, or helps to maintain, uprightness,
steadiness, and security.
It [piety] is the right ballast of prosperity. Barrow.
Ballast engine, a steam engine used in excavating and for digging and
raising stones and gravel for ballast.
 -- Ship in ballast, a ship carring only ballast.

BALLAST
Bal"last, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ballasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Ballasting.]

1. To steady, as a vessel, by putting heavy substances in the hold.

2. To fill in, as the bed of a railroad, with gravel, stone, etc., in
order to make it firm and solid.

3. To keep steady; to steady, morally.
'T is charity must ballast the heart. Hammond.

BALLASTAGE
Bal"last*age, n. (Law)

Defn: A toll paid for the privilege of taking up ballast in a port or
harbor.

BALLASTING
Bal"last*ing, n.

Defn: That which is used for steadying anything; ballast.

BALLATRY
Bal"la*try, n.

Defn: See Balladry. [Obs.] Milton.

BALLET
Bal"let`, n. Etym: [F., a dim. of bal dance. See 2d Ball, n.]

1. An artistic dance performed as a theatrical entertainment, or an
interlude, by a number of persons, usually women. Sometimes, a scene
accompanied by pantomime and dancing.

2. The company of persons who perform the ballet.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A light part song, or madrigal, with a fa la burden or chorus,
-- most common with the Elizabethan madrigal composers.

4. (Her.)

Defn: A bearing in coats of arms, representing one or more balls,
which are denominated bezants, plates, etc., according to color.

BALL-FLOWER
Ball"-flow`er, n. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament resembling a ball placed in a circular flower, the
petals of which form a cup round it, -- usually inserted in a hollow
molding.

BALLISTA
Bal*lis"ta, n.; pl. Ballist. Etym: [L. ballista, balista, fr. Gr. to
throw.]

Defn: An ancient military engine, in the form of a crossbow, used for
hurling large missiles.

BALLISTER
Bal"lis*ter, n. Etym: [L. ballista. Cf. Balister.]

Defn: A crossbow. [Obs.]

BALLISTIC
Bal*lis"tic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the ballista, or to the art of hurling stones
or missile weapons by means of an engine.

2. Pertaining to projection, or to a projectile. Ballistic pendulum,
an instrument consisting of a mass of wood or other material
suspended as a pendulum, for measuring the force and velocity of
projectiles by means of the arc through which their impact impels it.

BALLISTICS
Bal*lis"tics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. balistique. See Ballista.]

Defn: The science or art of hurling missile weapons by the use of an
engine. Whewell.

BALLISTITE
Bal"lis*tite, n. [See Ballista.] (Chem.)

Defn: A smokeless powder containing equal parts of soluble
nitrocellulose and nitroglycerin.

BALLIUM
Bal"li*um, n. Etym: [LL.]

Defn: See Bailey.

BALLOON
Bal*loon", n. Etym: [F. ballon, aug. of balle ball: cf. It. ballone.
See 1st Ball, n., and cf. Pallone.]

1. A bag made of silk or other light material, and filled with
hydrogen gas or heated air, so as to rise and float in the
atmosphere; especially, one with a car attached for aërial
navigation.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A ball or globe on the top of a pillar, church, etc., as at St.
Paul's, in London. [R.]

3. (Chem.)

Defn: A round vessel, usually with a short neck, to hold or receive
whatever is distilled; a glass vessel of a spherical form.

4. (Pyrotechnics)

Defn: A bomb or shell. [Obs.]

5. A game played with a large inf [Obs.]

6. (Engraving)

Defn: The outline inclosing words represented as coming from the
mouth of a pictured figure. Air balloon, a balloon for aërial
navigation.
 -- Balloon frame (Carp.), a house frame constructed altogether of
small timber.
 -- Balloon net, a variety of woven lace in which the weft threads
are twisted in a peculiar manner around the warp.

BALLOON
Bal*loon", v. t.

Defn: To take up in, or as if in, a balloon.

BALLOON
Bal*loon", v. i.

1. To go up or voyage in a balloon.

2. To expand, or puff out, like a balloon.

BALLOONED
Bal*looned", a.

Defn: Swelled out like a balloon.

BALLOONER
Bal*loon"er, n.

Defn: One who goes up in a balloon; an aëronaut.

BALLOON FISH
Bal*loon" fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the genus Diodon or the genus Tetraodon, having the
power of distending its body by taking air or water into its
dilatable esophagus. See Globefish, and Bur fish.

BALLOONING
Bal*loon"ing, n.

1. The art or practice of managing balloons or voyaging in them.

2. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: The process of temporarily raising the value of a stock, as by
fictitious sales. [U.S.]

BALLOONING SPIDER
Bal*loon"ing spi"der. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spider which has the habit of rising into the air. Many kinds
( esp. species of Lycosa) do this while young by ejecting threads of
silk until the force of the wind upon them carries the spider aloft.

BALLOONIST
Bal*loon"ist, n.

Defn: An aëronaut.

BALLOONRY
Bal*loon"ry, n.

Defn: The art or practice of ascending in a balloon; aëronautics.

BALLOT
Bal"lot, n. Etym: [F. ballotte, fr. It. ballotta. See Ball round
body.]

1. Originally, a ball used for secret voting. Hence: Any printed or
written ticket used in voting.

2. The act of voting by balls or written or printed ballots or
tickets; the system of voting secretly by balls or by tickets.
The insufficiency of the ballot. Dickens.

3. The whole number of votes cast at an election, or in a given
territory or electoral district. Ballot box, a box for receiving
ballots.

BALLOT
Bal"lot, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Balloted; p. pr. & vb. n. Balloting.]
Etym: [F. ballotter to toss, to ballot, or It. ballottare. See
Ballot, n.]

Defn: To vote or decide by ballot; as, to ballot for a candidate.

BALLOT
Bal"lot, v. t.

Defn: To vote for or in opposition to.
None of the competitors arriving to a sufficient number of balls,
they fell to ballot some others. Sir H. Wotton.

BALLOTADE
Bal"lo*tade`, n. Etym: [F. ballottade, fr. ballotter to toss. See
Ballot, v. i.] (Man.)

Defn: A leap of a horse, as between two pillars, or upon a straight
line, so that when his four feet are in the air, he shows only the
shoes of his hind feet, without jerking out.

BALLOTAGE
Bal"lot*age, n. [F. ballottage.]

Defn: In France, a second ballot taken after an indecisive first
ballot to decide between two or several candidates.

BALLOTATION
Bal`lo*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Voting by ballot. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

BALLOTER
Bal"lot*er, n.

Defn: One who votes by ballot.

BALLOTIN
Bal"lo*tin, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An officer who has charge of a ballot box. [Obs.] Harrington.

BALLOW
Bal"low, n.

Defn: A cudgel. [Obs.] Shak.

BALLPROOF
Ball"proof`, a.

Defn: Incapable of being penetrated by balls from firearms.

BALLROOM
Ball"room` (, n.

Defn: A room for balls or dancing.

BALM
Balm, n. Etym: [OE. baume, OF. bausme, basme, F. baume, L. balsamum
balsam, from Gr. ; perhaps of Semitic origin; cf. Heb. basam. Cf.
Balsam.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.

2. The resinous and aromatic exudation of certain trees or shrubs.
Dryden.

3. Any fragrant ointment. Shak.

4. Anything that heals or that mitigates pain. "Balm for each ill."
Mrs. Hemans. Balm cricket (Zoöl.), the European cicada. Tennyson.
 -- Balm of Gilead (Bot.), a small evergreen African and Asiatic tree
of the terebinthine family (Balsamodendron Gileadense). Its leaves
yield, when bruised, a strong aromatic scent; and from this tree is
obtained the balm of Gilead of the shops, or balsam of Mecca. This
has a yellowish or greenish color, a warm, bitterish, aromatic taste,
and a fragrant smell. It is valued as an unguent and cosmetic by the
Turks. The fragrant herb Dracocephalum Canariense is familiarly
called balm of Gilead, and so are the American trees, Populus
balsamifera, variety candicans (balsam poplar), and Abies balsamea
(balsam fir).

BALM
Balm, v. i.

Defn: To anoint with balm, or with anything medicinal. Hence: To
soothe; to mitigate. [Archaic] Shak.

BALMIFY
Balm"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [Balm + -fy.]

Defn: To render balmy. [Obs.] Cheyne.

BALMILY
Balm"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a balmy manner. Coleridge.

BALMORAL
Bal*mor"al, n. Etym: [From Balmoral Castle, in Aberdeenshire,
Scotland.]

1. A long woolen petticoat, worn immediately under the dress.

2. A kind of stout walking shoe, laced in front.
A man who uses his balmorals to tread on your toes. George Eliot.

BALMY
Balm"y, a.

1. Having the qualities of balm; odoriferous; aromatic; assuaging;
soothing; refreshing; mild. "The balmy breeze." Tickell.
Tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep ! Young.

2. Producing balm. "The balmy tree." Pope.

Syn.
 -- Fragrant; sweet-scented; odorous; spicy.

BALNEAL
Bal"ne*al, a. Etym: [L. balneum bath.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a bath. Howell.

BALNEARY
Bal"ne*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. balnearium, fr. balneum bath.]

Defn: A bathing room. Sir T. Browne.

BALNEATION
Bal`ne*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. balneare to bathe, fr. L. balneum bath.]

Defn: The act of bathing. [R.]

BALNEATORY
Bal"ne*a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. balneatorius.]

Defn: Belonging to a bath. [Obs.]

BALNEOGRAPHY
Bal`ne*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [L. balneum bath + -graphy.]

Defn: A description of baths.

BALNEOLOGY
Bal`ne*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. balneum bath + -logy.]

Defn: A treatise on baths; the science of bathing.

BALNEOTHERAPY
Bal`ne*o*ther"a*py, n. Etym: [L. balneum bath + Gr. to heal.]

Defn: The treatment of disease by baths.

BALOPTICON
Bal*op"ti*con, n. [Gr.  to throw + stereopticon.]

Defn: See Projector, below.

BALOTADE
Bal"o*tade`, n.

Defn: See Ballotade.

BALSA
Bal"sa, n. Etym: [Sp. or Pg. balsa.] (Naut.)

Defn: A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of South
America.

BALSAM
Bal"sam, n. Etym: [L. balsamum the balsam tree or its resin, Gr. .
See Balm, n.]

1. A resin containing more or less of an essential or volatile oil.

Note: The balsams are aromatic resinous substances, flowing
spontaneously or by incision from certain plants. A great variety of
substances pass under this name, but the term is now usually
restricted to resins which, in addition to a volatile oil, contain
benzoic and cinnamic acid. Among the true balsams are the balm of
Gilead, and the balsams of copaiba, Peru, and Tolu. There are also
many pharmaceutical preparations and resinous substances, possessed
of a balsamic smell, to which the name balsam has been given.

2. (Bot.)
(a) A species of tree (Abies balsamea).
(b) An annual garden plant (Impatiens balsamina) with beautiful
flowers; balsamine.

3. Anything that heals, soothes, or restores.
Was not the people's blessing a balsam to thy blood Tennyson.
Balsam apple (Bot.), an East Indian plant ( Momordica balsamina), of
the gourd family, with red or orange-yellow cucumber-shaped fruit of
the size of a walnut, used as a vulnerary, and in liniments and
poultices.
 -- Balsam fir (Bot.), the American coniferous tree, Abies balsamea,
from which the useful Canada balsam is derived.
 -- Balsam of copaiba. See Copaiba.
 -- Balsam of Mecca, balm of Gilead.
 -- Balsam of Peru, a reddish brown, syrupy balsam, obtained from a
Central American tree ( Myroxylon Pereiræ and used as a stomachic and
expectorant, and in the treatment of ulcers, etc. It was long
supposed to be a product of Peru.
 -- Balsam of Tolu, a reddish or yellowish brown semisolid or solid
balsam, obtained from a South American tree ( Myxoxylon toluiferum.).
It is highly fragrant, and is used as a stomachic and expectorant.
 -- Balsam tree, any tree from which balsam is obtained, esp. the
Abies balsamea.
 -- Canada balsam, Balsam of fir, Canada turpentine, a yellowish,
viscid liquid, which, by time and exposure, becomes a transparent
solid mass. It is obtained from the balm of Gilead (or balsam) fir
(Abies balsamea) by breaking the vesicles upon the trunk and
branches. See Balm.

BALSAM
Bal"sam, v. t.

Defn: To treat or anoint with balsam; to relieve, as with balsam; to
render balsamic.

BALSAMATION
Bal`sam*a"tion, n.

1. The act of imparting balsamic properties.

2. The art or process of embalming.

BALSAMIC; BALSAMICAL
Bal*sam"ic, Bal*sam"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. balsamique.]

Defn: Having the qualities of balsam; containing, or resembling,
balsam; soft; mitigative; soothing; restorative.

BALSAMIFEROUS
Bal`sam*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Balsam + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing balsam.

BALSAMINE
Bal"sam*ine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. balsamine, fr. Gr. balsam plant.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The Impatiens balsamina, or garden balsam.

BALSAMOUS
Bal"sam*ous, a.

Defn: Having the quality of balsam; containing balsam. "A balsamous
substance." Sterne.

BALTER
Bal"ter, v. t. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain. Cf. Bloodboltered.]

Defn: To stick together.[Obs.] Holland.

BALTIC
Bal"tic, a. Etym: [NL. mare Balticum, fr. L. balteus belt, from
certain straits or channels surrounding its isles, called belts. See
Belt.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Sweden
from Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea.

BALTIMORE BIRD; BALTIMORE ORIOLE
Bal"ti*more bird`. Bal"ti*more o"ri*ole. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A common American bird (Icterus galbula), named after Lord
Baltimore, because its colors (black and orange red) are like those
of his coat of arms; -- called also golden robin.

BALUSTER
Bal"us*ter, n. Etym: [F. balustre, It. balaustro, fr. L. balaustium
the flower of the wild pomegranate, fr. Gr. ; -- so named from the
similarity of form.] (Arch.)

Defn: A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an open
parapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase,
or the eaves of a building.

BALUSTERED
Bal"us*tered (-terd), a.

Defn: Having balusters.  Dryden.

BALUSTRADE
Bal"us*trade` (-trad`), n. [F. balustrade, It. balaustrata fr.
balaustro. See Baluster.] (Arch.)

Defn: A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an open
parapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase,
or the eaves of a building.

BAM
Bam, n. Etym: [Prob. a contr. of bamboozle.]

Defn: An imposition; a cheat; a hoax. Garrick.
To relieve the tediumbams. Prof. Wilson.

BAM
Bam, v. t.

Defn: To cheat; to wheedle. [Slang] Foote.

BAMBINO
Bam*bi"no, n. Etym: [It., a little boy, fr. bambo silly; cf. Gr. , ,
to chatter.]

Defn: A child or baby; esp., a representation in art of the infant
Christ wrapped in swaddling clothes.

BAMBOCCIADE
Bam*boc`ci*ade", n. Etym: [It. bambocciata, fr. Bamboccio a nickname
of Peter Van Laer, a Dutch genre painter; properly, a child,
simpleton, puppet, fr. bambo silly.] (Paint.)

Defn: A representation of a grotesque scene from common or rustic
life.

BAMBOO
Bam*boo", n. Etym: [Malay bambu, mambu.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing in
tropical countries.

Note: The most useful species is Bambusa arundinacea, which has a
woody, hollow, round, straight, jointed stem, and grows to the height
of forty feet and upward. The flowers grow in large panicles, from
the joints of the stalk, placed three in a parcel, close to their
receptacles. Old stalks grow to five or six inches in diameter, and
are so hard and durable as to be used for building, and for all sorts
of furniture, for water pipes, and for poles to support palanquins.
The smaller stalks are used for walking sticks, flutes, etc.

BAMBOO
Bam*boo", v. t.

Defn: To flog with the bamboo.

BAMBOOZLE
Bam*boo"zle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bamboozled (p. pr. & vb. n.
Bamboozling ( Etym: [Said to be of Gipsy origin.]

Defn: To deceive by trickery; to cajole by confusing the senses; to
hoax; to mystify; to humbug. [Colloq.] Addison.
What oriental tomfoolery is bamboozling you J. H. Newman.

BAMBOOZLER
Bam*boo"zler, n.

Defn: A swindler; one who deceives by trickery. [Colloq.] Arbuthnot.

BAN
Ban, n. Etym: [AS. bann command, edict; akin to D. ban, Icel. bann,
Dan. band, OHG. ban, G. bann, a public proclamation, as of
interdiction or excommunication, Gr. to say, L. fari to speak, Skr.
bhan to speak; cf. F. ban, LL. bannum, of G. origin. Abandon, Fame.]

1. A public proclamation or edict; a public order or notice,
mandatory or prohibitory; a summons by public proclamation.

2. (Feudal & Mil.)

Defn: A calling together of the king's (esp. the French king's)
vassals for military service; also, the body of vassals thus
assembled or summoned. In present usage, in France and Prussia, the
most effective part of the population liable to military duty and not
in the standing army.

3. pl.

Defn: Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in church. See Banns
(the common spelling in this sense).

4. An interdiction, prohibition, or proscription. "Under ban to
touch." Milton.

5. A curse or anathema. "Hecate's ban." Shak.

6. A pecuniary mulct or penalty laid upon a delinquent for offending
against a ban; as, a mulct paid to a bishop by one guilty of
sacrilege or other crimes. Ban of the empire (German Hist.), an
imperial interdict by which political rights and privileges, as those
of a prince, city, or district, were taken away.

BAN
Ban, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Banned (p. pr. & vb. n. Banning.] Etym: [OE.
bannen, bannien, to summon, curse, AS. bannan to summon; akin to Dan.
bande, forbande, to curse, Sw. banna to revile, bannas to curse. See
Ban an edict, and cf. Banish.]

1. To curse; to invoke evil upon. Sir W. Scott.

2. To forbid; to interdict. Byron.

BAN
Ban, v. i.

Defn: To curse; to swear. [Obs.] Spenser.

BAN
Ban, n. Etym: [Serv. ban; cf. Russ. & Pol. pan a masterban.]

Defn: An ancient title of the warden of the eastern marches of
Hungary; now, a title of the viceroy of Croatia and Slavonia.

BANAL
Ban"al, a. Etym: [F., fr. ban an ordinance.]

Defn: Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite.

BANALITY
Ba*nal"i*ty, n.; pl. Banalities. Etym: [F. banalité. See Banal.]

Defn: Something commonplace, hackneyed, or trivial; the commonplace,
in speech.
The highest things were thus brought down to the banalities of
discourse. J. Morley.

BANANA
Ba*na"na, n. Etym: [Sp. banana, name of the fruit.] (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musa
sapientum); also, its edible fruit. See Musa.

Note: The banana has a soft, herbaceous stalk, with leaves of great
length and breadth. The flowers grow in bunches, covered with a
sheath of a green or purple color; the fruit is five or six inches
long, and over an inch in diameter; the pulp is soft, and of a
luscious taste, and is eaten either raw or cooked. This plant is a
native of tropical countries, and furnishes an important article of
food. Banana bird (Zoöl.), a small American bird (Icterus
leucopteryx), which feeds on the banana.
 -- Banana quit (Zoöl.), a small bird of tropical America, of the
genus Certhiola, allied to the creepers.

BANANA SOLUTION
Ba*na"na so*lu"tion.

Defn: A solution used as a vehicle in applying bronze pigments. In
addition to acetote, benzine, and a little pyroxylin, it contains
amyl acetate, which gives it the odor of bananas.

BANAT
Ban"at, n. Etym: [Cf. F. & G. banat. See Ban a warden.]

Defn: The territory governed by a ban.

BANC; BANCUS; BANK
Banc, Ban"cus, Bank, n. Etym: [OF. banc, LL. bancus. See Bank, n.]

Defn: A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a
tribunal or court. In banc, In banco (the ablative of bancus), In
bank, in full court, or with full judicial authority; as, sittings in
banc (distinguished from sittings at nisi prius).

BANCAL
Ban*cal", n.; pl. -cales (#). [Sp., fr. banca, banco, bench. Cf.
Bench.]

Defn: An ornamental covering, as of carpet or leather, for a bench or
form.

BANCO
Ban"co, n. Etym: [It. See Bank.]

Defn: A bank, especially that of Venice.

Note: This term is used in some parts of Europe to indicate bank
money, as distinguished from the current money, when this last has
become depreciated.

BAND
Band, n. Etym: [OE. band, bond, Icel. band; akin to G., Sw., & D.
band, OHG. bant, Goth. banti, Skr. bandha a binding, bandh to bind,
for bhanda, bhandh, also to E. bend, bind. In sense 7, at least, it
is fr. F. bande, from OHG. bant. Bind, v. t., and cf. Bend, Bond, 1st
Bandy.]

1. A fillet, strap, or any narrow ligament with which a thing is
encircled, or fastened, or by which a number of things are tied,
bound together, or confined; a fetter.
Every one's bands were loosed. Acis xvi 26.

2. (Arch.)
(a) A continuous tablet, stripe, or series of ornaments, as of carved
foliage, of color, or of brickwork, etc.
(b) In Gothic architecture, the molding, or suite of moldings, which
encircles the pillars and small shafts.

3. That which serves as the means of union or connection between
persons; a tie. "To join in Hymen's bands." Shak.

4. A linen collar or ruff worn in the 16th and 17th centuries.

5. pl.

Defn: Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of a
clerical, legal, or academic dress.

6. A narrow strip of cloth or other material on any article of dress,
to bind, strengthen, ornament, or complete it. "Band and gusset and
seam." Hood.

7. A company of persons united in any common design, especially a
body of armed men.
Troops of horsemen with his bands of foot. Shak.

8. A number of musicians who play together upon portable musical
instruments, especially those making a loud sound, as certain wind
instruments (trumpets, clarinets, etc.), and drums, or cymbals.

9. (Bot.)

Defn: A space between elevated lines or ribs, as of the fruits of
umbelliferous plants.

10. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A stripe, streak, or other mark transverse to the axis of the
body.

11. (Mech.)

Defn: A belt or strap.

12. A bond [Obs.] "Thy oath and band." Shak.

13. Pledge; security. [Obs.] Spenser. Band saw, a saw in the form of
an endless steel belt, with teeth on one edge, running over wheels.

BAND
Band, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Banded; p. pr. & vb. n. Banding.]

1. To bind or tie with a band.

2. To mark with a band.

3. To unite in a troop, company, or confederacy. "Banded against his
throne." Milton. Banded architrave, pier, shaft, etc. (Arch.), an
architrave, pier, etc., of which the regular profile is interrupted
by blocks or projections crossing it at right angles.

BAND
Band, v. i.

Defn: To confederate for some common purpose; to unite; to conspire
together.
Certain of the Jews banded together. Acts xxiii. 12.

BAND
Band, v. t.

Defn: To bandy; to drive away. [Obs.]

BAND
Band, imp.

Defn: of Bind. [Obs.]

BANDAGE
Band"age, n. Etym: [F. bandage, fr. bande. See Band.]

1. A fillet or strip of woven material, used in dressing and binding
up wounds, etc.

2. Something resembling a bandage; that which is bound over or round
something to cover, strengthen, or compress it; a ligature.
Zeal too had a place among the rest, with a bandage over her eyes.
Addison.

BANDAGE
Band"age, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bandaged (p. pr. & vb. n. Bandaging (

Defn: To bind, dress, or cover, with a bandage; as, to bandage the
eyes.

BANDALA
Ban*da"la, n.

Defn: A fabric made in Manilla from the older leaf sheaths of the
abaca (Musa textilis).

BANDANNA; BANDANA
Ban*dan"na, Ban*dan"a, n. Etym: [Hind. bandhn a mode of dyeing in
which the cloth is tied in different places so as to prevent the
parts tied from receiving the dye. Cf. Band, n.]

1. A species of silk or cotton handkerchief, having a uniformly dyed
ground, usually of red or blue, with white or yellow figures of a
circular, lozenge, or other simple form.

2. A style of calico printing, in which white or bright spots are
produced upon cloth previously dyed of a uniform red or dark color,
by discharging portions of the color by chemical means, while the
rest of the cloth is under pressure. Ure.

BANDBOX
Band"box`, n.

Defn: A light box of pasteboard or thin wood, usually cylindrical,
for holding ruffs (the bands of the 17th century), collars, caps,
bonnets, etc.

BANDEAU
Ban"deau, n.; pl. Bandeaux. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A narrow band or fillet; a part of a head-dress.
Around the edge of this cap was a stiff bandeau of leather. Sir W.
Scott.

BANDELET; BANDLET
Band"e*let, Band"let, n. Etym: [F. bandelette, dim. of bande. See
Band, n., and ch. Bendlet.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small band or fillet; any little band or flat molding,
compassing a column, like a ring. Gwilt.

BANDER
Band"er, n.

Defn: One banded with others. [R.]

BANDERILLA
Ban`de*ril"la, n. [Sp., dim. of bandera banner. See Banner, and cf.
Banderole.]

Defn: A barbed dart carrying a banderole which the banderillero
thrusts into the neck or shoulder of the bull in a bullfight.

BANDERILLERO
Ban`de*ril*le"ro, n. [Sp.]

Defn: One who thrusts in the banderillas in bullfighting.  W. D.
Howells.

BANDEROLE; BANDROL
Band"e*role, Band"rol, n. Etym: [F. banderole, dim. of bandière,
bannière, banner; cf. It. banderuola a little banner. See Banner.]

Defn: A little banner, flag, or streamer. [Written also bannerol.]
From the extremity of which fluttered a small banderole or streamer
bearing a cross. Sir W. Scott.

BAND FISH
Band" fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small red fish of the genus Cepola; the ribbon fish.

BANDICOOT
Ban"di*coot, n. Etym: [A corruption of the native name.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A species of very large rat (Mus giganteus), found in India and
Ceylon. It does much injury to rice fields and gardens.
(b) A ratlike marsupial animal (genus Perameles) of several species,
found in Australia and Tasmania.

BANDING PLANE
Band"ing plane`.

Defn: A plane used for cutting out grooves and inlaying strings and
bands in straight and circular work.

BANDIT
Ban"dit, n.; pl.Bandits, or Banditti. Etym: [It. bandito outlaw, p.p.
of bandire to proclaim, to banish, to proscribe, LL. bandire,
bannire. See Ban an edict, and cf. Banish.]

Defn: An outlaw; a brigand.
No savage fierce, bandit, or mountaineer. Milton.

Note: The plural banditti was formerly used as a collective noun.
Deerstealers are ever a desperate banditti. Sir W. Scott.

BANDLE
Ban"dle, n. Etym: [Ir. bannlamh cubit, fr. bann a measure + lamh
hand, arm.]

Defn: An Irish measure of two feet in length.

BANDLET
Band"let, n.

Defn: Same as Bandelet.

BANDMASTER
Band"mas`ter, n.

Defn: The conductor of a musical band.

BANDOG
Ban"dog`, n. Etym: [Band + dog, i.e., bound dog.]

Defn: A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chained
or tied up.
The keeper entered leading his bandog, a large bloodhound, tied in a
leam, or band, from which he takes his name. Sir W. Scott.

BANDOLEER; BANDOLIER
Ban`do*leer", Ban`do*lier", n. Etym: [F. bandoulière (cf.It.
bandoliera, Sp.bandolera), fr.F. bande band, Sp.&It. banda. See Band,
n.]

1. A broad leather belt formerly worn by soldiers over the right
shoulder and across the breast under the left arm. Originally it was
used for supporting the musket and twelve cases for charges, but
later only as a cartridge belt.

2. One of the leather or wooden cases in which the charges of powder
were carried. [Obs.]

BANDOLINE
Ban"do*line, n. Etym: [Perh. allied to band.]

Defn: A glutinous pomatum for the fair.

BANDON
Ban"don, n. Etym: [OF. bandon. See Abandon.]

Defn: Disposal; control; license. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

BANDORE
Ban"dore, n. Etym: [Sp. bandurria, fr. L. pandura, pandurium, a
musical instrument of three strings, fr. Gr. . Cf. Pandore, Banjo,
Mandolin.]

Defn: A musical stringed instrument, similar in form to a guitar; a
pandore.

BANDROL
Band"rol, n.

Defn: Same as Banderole.

BANDY
Ban"dy, n. Etym: [Telugu bandi.]

Defn: A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks.

BANDY
Ban"dy, n.; pl. Bandies (. Etym: [Cf. F. bandé, p.p. of bander to
bind, to bend (a bow), to bandy, fr. bande. See Band, n.]

1. A club bent at the lower part for striking a ball at play; a
hockey stick. Johnson.

2. The game played with such a club; hockey; shinney; bandy ball.

BANDY
Ban"dy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bandied (p. pr. & vb. n. Bandying.]

1. To beat to and fro, as a ball in playing at bandy.
Like tennis balls bandied and struck upon us . . . by rackets from
without. Cudworth.

2. To give and receive reciprocally; to exchange. "To bandy hasty
words." Shak.

3. To toss about, as from man to man; to agitate.
Let not obvious and known truth be bandied about in a disputation. I.
Watts.

BANDY
Ban"dy, v. i.

Defn: To content, as at some game in which each strives to drive the
ball his own way.
Fit to bandy with thy lawless sons. Shak.

BANDY
Ban"dy, a.

Defn: Bent; crooked; curved laterally, esp. with the convex side
outward; as, a bandy leg.

BANDY-LEGGED
Ban"dy-legged`, a.

Defn: Having crooked legs.

BANE
Bane, n. Etym: [OE. bane destruction, AS. bana murderer; akin to
Icel. bani death, murderer, OHG. bana murder, bano murderer, murder,
OIr. bath death, benim I strike.

1. That which destroys life, esp. poison of a deadly quality. [Obs.
except in combination, as in ratsbane, henbane, etc.]

2. Destruction; death. [Obs.]
The cup of deception spiced and tempered to their bane. Milton.

3. Any cause of ruin, or lasting injury; harm; woe.
Money, thou bane of bliss, and source of woe. Herbert.

4. A disease in sheep, commonly termed the rot.

Syn.
 -- Poison; ruin; destruction; injury; pest.

BANE
Bane, v. t.

Defn: To be the bane of; to ruin. [Obs.] Fuller.

BANEBERRY
Bane"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus (Actæa) of plants, of the order Ranunculaceæ, native in
the north temperate zone. The red or white berries are poisonous.

BANEFUL
Bane"ful, a.

Defn: Having poisonous qualities; deadly; destructive; injurious;
noxious; pernicious. "Baneful hemlock." Garth. "Baneful wrath."
Chapman.
 -- Bane"ful*ly, adv. --Bane"ful*ness, n.

BANEWORT
Bane"wort, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Deadly nightshade.

BANG
Bang, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Banged; p. pr. & vb. n. Banging.] Etym:
[Icel. banga to hammer; akin to Dan. banke to beat, Sw.bångas to be
impetuous, G. bengel club, clapper of a bell.]

1. To beat, as with a club or cudgel; to treat with violence; to
handle roughly.
The desperate tempest hath so banged the Turks. Shak.

2. To beat or thump, or to cause ( something) to hit or strike
against another object, in such a way as to make a loud noise; as, to
bang a drum or a piano; to bang a door (against the doorpost or
casing) in shutting it.

BANG
Bang, v. i.

Defn: To make a loud noise, as if with a blow or succession of blows;
as, the window blind banged and waked me; he was banging on the
piano.

BANG
Bang, n.

1. A blow as with a club; a heavy blow.
Many a stiff thwack, many a bang. Hudibras.

2. The sound produced by a sudden concussion.

BANG
Bang, v. t.

Defn: To cut squarely across, as the tail of a hors, or the forelock
of human beings; to cut (the hair).
His hair banged even with his eyebrows. The Century Mag.

BANG
Bang, n.

Defn: The short, front hair combed down over the forehead, esp. when
cut squarely across; a false front of hair similarly worn.
His hair cut in front like a young lady's bang. W. D. Howells.

BANG; BANGUE
Bang, Bangue, n.

Defn: See Bhang.

BANGING
Bang"ing, a.

Defn: Huge; great in size. [Colloq.] Forby.

BANGLE
Ban"gle, v. t. Etym: [From 1st Bang.]

Defn: To waste by little and little; to fritter away. [Obs.]

BANGLE
Ban"gle, n. Etym: [Hind. bangri bracelet, bangle.]

Defn: An ornamental circlet, of glass, gold, silver, or other
material, worn by women in India and Africa, and in some other
countries, upon the wrist or ankle; a ring bracelet. Bangle ear, a
loose hanging ear of a horse, like that of a spaniel.

BANIAN
Ban"ian, n. Etym: [Skr. banij merchant. The tree was so named by the
English, because used as a market place by the merchants.]

1. A Hindoo trader, merchant, cashier, or money changer. [Written
also banyan.]

2. A man's loose gown, like that worn by the Banians.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The Indian fig. See Banyan. Banian days (Naut.), days in which
the sailors have no flesh meat served out to them. This use seems to
be borrowed from the Banians or Banya race, who eat no flesh.

BANISH
Ban"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Banished(p. pr. & vb. n. Banishing.]
Etym: [OF. banir, F. bannir, LL. bannire, fr. OHG. bannan to summon,
fr. ban ban. See Ban an edict, and Finish, v. t.]

1. To condemn to exile, or compel to leave one's country, by
authority of the ruling power. "We banish you our territories." Shak.

2. To drive out, as from a home or familiar place; -- used with from
and out of.
How the ancient Celtic tongue came to be banished from the Low
Countries in Scotland. Blair.

3. To drive away; to compel to depart; to dispel. "Banish all
offense." Shak.

Syn.
 -- To Banish, Exile, Expel. The idea of a coercive removal from a
place is common to these terms. A man is banished when he is forced
by the government of a country (be he a foreigner or a native) to
leave its borders. A man is exiled when he is driven into banishment
from his native country and home. Thus to exile is to banish, but to
banish is not always to exile. To expel is to eject or banish,
summarily or authoritatively, and usually under circumstances of
disgrace; as, to expel from a college; expelled from decent society.

BANISHER
Ban"ish*er, n.

Defn: One who banishes.

BANISHMENT
Ban"ish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bannissement.]

Defn: The act of banishing, or the state of being banished.
He secured himself by the banishment of his enemies. Johnson.
Round the wide world in banishment we roam. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Expatriation; ostracism; expulsion; proscription; exile;
outlawry.

BANISTER
Ban"is*ter, n. Etym: [Formerly also banjore and banjer; corrupted
from bandore, through negro slave pronunciation.]

Defn: A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the
guitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and is
played with the fingers and hands.

BANJO
Ban"jo, n. [Formerly also banjore and banjer; corrupted from bandore,
through negro slave pronunciation.]

Defn: A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the
guitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and is
played with the fingers and hands.

BANJORINE
Ban`jo*rine", n. [From banjore banjo. See Banjo.] (Music.)

Defn: A kind of banjo, with a short neck, tuned a fourth higher than
the common banjo; -- popularly so called.

BANK
Bank, n. Etym: [OE. banke; akin to E. bench, and prob. of Scand.
origin.; cf. Icel. bakki. See Bench.]

1. A mound, pile, or ridge of earth, raised above the surrounding
level; hence, anything shaped like a mound or ridge of earth; as, a
bank of clouds; a bank of snow.
They cast up a bank against the city. 2 Sam. xx. 15.

2. A steep acclivity, as the slope of a hill, or the side of a
ravine.

3. The margin of a watercourse; the rising ground bordering a lake,
river, or sea, or forming the edge of a cutting, or other hollow.
Tiber trembled underneath her banks. Shak.

4. An elevation, or rising ground, under the sea; a shoal, shelf, or
shallow; as, the banks of Newfoundland.

5. (Mining)
(a) The face of the coal at which miners are working.
(b) A deposit of ore or coal, worked by excavations above water
level.
(c) The ground at the top of a shaft; as, ores are brought to bank.
Bank beaver (Zoöl.), the otter. [Local, U.S.] -- Bank swallow, a
small American and European swallow (Clivicola riparia) that nests in
a hole which it excavates in a bank.

BANK
Bank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Banked(p. pr. & vb. n. Banking.]

1. To raise a mound or dike about; to inclose, defend, or fortify
with a bank; to embank. "Banked well with earth." Holland.

2. To heap or pile up; as, to bank sand.

3. To pass by the banks of. [Obs.] Shak. To bank a fire, To bank up a
fire, to cover the coals or embers with ashes or cinders, thus
keeping the fire low but alive.

BANK
Bank, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. F. banc. Of German origin, and akin to E.
bench. See Bench.]

1. A bench, as for rowers in a galley; also, a tier of oars.
Placed on their banks, the lusty Trojan sweep Neptune's smooth face,
and cleave the yielding deep. Waller.

2. (Law)
(a) The bench or seat upon which the judges sit.
(b) The regular term of a court of law, or the full court sitting to
hear arguments upon questions of law, as distinguished from a sitting
at Nisi Prius, or a court held for jury trials. See Banc. Burrill.

3. (Printing)

Defn: A sort of table used by printers.

4. (Music)

Defn: A bench, or row of keys belonging to a keyboard, as in an
organ. Knight.

BANK
Bank, n. Etym: [F. banque, It. banca, orig. bench, table, counter, of
German origin, and akin to E. bench; cf. G. bank bench, OHG. banch.
See Bench, and cf. Banco, Beach.]

1. An establishment for the custody, loan, exchange, or issue, of
money, and for facilitating the transmission of funds by drafts or
bills of exchange; an institution incorporated for performing one or
more of such functions, or the stockholders (or their
representatives, the directors), acting in their corporate capacity.

2. The building or office used for banking purposes.

3. A fund from deposits or contributions, to be used in transacting
business; a joint stock or capital. [Obs.]
Let it be no bank or common stock, but every man be master of his own
money. Bacon.

4. (Gaming)

Defn: The sum of money or the checks which the dealer or banker has
as a fund, from which to draw his stakes and pay his losses.

5. In certain games, as dominos, a fund of pieces from which the
players are allowed to draw. Bank credit, a credit by which a person
who has give -- Bank of deposit, a bank which receives money for safe
keeping.
 -- Bank of issue, a bank which issues its own notes payable to
bearer.

BANK
Bank, v. t.

Defn: To deposit in a bank.

BANK
Bank, v. i.

1. To keep a bank; to carry on the business of a banker.

2. To deposit money in a bank; to have an account with a banker.

BANKABLE
Bank"a*ble, a.

Defn: Receivable at a bank.

BANK BILL
Bank" bill`.

1. In America (and formerly in England), a promissory note of a bank
payable to the bearer on demand, and used as currency; a bank note.

2. In England, a note, or a bill of exchange, of a bank, payable to
order, and usually at some future specified time. Such bills are
negotiable, but form, in the strict sense of the term, no part of the
currency.

BANK BOOK
Bank" book`.

Defn: A book kept by a depositor, in which an officer of a bank
enters the debits and credits of the depositor's account with the
bank.

BANK DISCOUNT
Bank discount.

Defn: A sum equal to the interest at a given rate on the principal
(face) of a bill or note from the time of discounting until it
becomes due.

BANKER
Bank"er, n.Etym: [See the nouns Bank and the verbs derived from
them.]

1. One who conducts the business of banking; one who, individually,
or as a member of a company, keeps an establishment for the deposit
or loan of money, or for traffic in money, bills of exchange, etc.

2. A money changer. [Obs.]

3. The dealer, or one who keeps the bank in a gambling house.

4. A vessel employed in the cod fishery on the banks of Newfoundland.
Grabb. J. Q. Adams.

5. A ditcher; a drain digger. [Prov. Eng.]

6. The stone bench on which masons cut or square their work. Weale.

BANKERESS
Bank"er*ess, n.

Defn: A female banker. Thackeray.

BANKING
Bank"ing, n.

Defn: The business of a bank or of a banker. Banking house, an
establishment or office in which, or a firm by whom, banking is done.

BANK NOTE
Bank" note`.

1. A promissory note issued by a bank or banking company, payable to
bearer on demand.

Note: In the United States popularly called a bank bill.

2. Formerly, a promissory note made by a banker, or banking company,
payable to a specified person at a fixed date; a bank bill. See Bank
bill, 2. [Obs.]

3. A promissory note payable at a bank.

BANKRUPT
Bank"rupt, n. Etym: [F. banqueroute, fr. It. bancarotta bankruptcy;
banca bank (fr. OHG. banch, G. bank, bench) + rotta broken, fr. L.
ruptus, p.p. of rumpere to break. At Florence, it is said, the
bankrupt had his bench ( i.e., money table) broken. See 1st Bank, and
Rupture, n.]

1. (Old Eng. Low)

Defn: A trader who secretes himself, or does certain other acts
tending to defraud his creditors. Blackstone.

2. A trader who becomes unable to pay his debts; an insolvent trader;
popularly, any person who is unable to pay his debts; an insolvent
person. M

3. (Law)

Defn: A person who, in accordance with the terms of a law relating to
bankruptcy, has been judicially declared to be unable to meet his
liabilities.

Note: In England, until the year 1861 none but a "trader" could be
made a bankrupt; a non-trader failing to meet his liabilities being
an "insolvent". But this distinction was abolished by the Bankruptcy
Act of 1861. The laws of 1841 and 1867 of the United States relating
to bankruptcy applied this designation bankrupt to others besides
those engaged in trade.

BANKRUPT
Bank"rupt, a.

1. Being a bankrupt or in a condition of bankruptcy; unable to pay,
or legally discharged from paying, one's debts; as, a bankrupt
merchant.

2. Depleted of money; not having the means of meeting pecuniary
liabilities; as, a bankrupt treasury.

3. Relating to bankrupts and bankruptcy.

4. Destitute of, or wholly wanting (something once possessed, or
something one should possess). "Bankrupt in gratitude." Sheridan.
Bankrupt law, a law by which the property of a person who is unable
or unwilling to pay his debts may be taken and distributed to his
creditors, and by which a person who has made a full surrender of his
property, and is free from fraud, may be discharged from the legal
obligation of his debts. See Insolvent, a.

BANKRUPT
Bank"rupt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bankrupted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bankrupting.]

Defn: To make bankrupt; to bring financial ruin upon; to impoverish.

BANKRUPTCY
Bank"rupt*cy, n.; pl. Bankruptcies(

1. The state of being actually or legally bankrupt.

2. The act or process of becoming a bankrupt.

3. Complete loss; -- followed by of.

BANKSIDE
Bank"side`, n.

Defn: The slope of a bank, especially of the bank of a steam.

BANK-SIDED
Bank"-sid`ed, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having sides inclining inwards, as a ship; -- opposed to wall-
sided.

BANK SWALLOW
Bank" swal"low.

Defn: See under 1st Bank, n.

BANLIEUE
Ban"li*eue`, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. bannum leucae, banleuca; bannum
jurisdiction + leuca league.]

Defn: The territory without the walls, but within the legal limits,
of a town or city. Brande & C.

BANNER
Ban"ner, n. Etym: [OE. banere, OF. baniere, F. bannière, bandière,
fr. LL. baniera, banderia, fr. bandum banner, fr. OHG. bant band,
strip of cloth; cf. bindan to bind, Goth. bandwa, bandwo, a sign. See
Band, n.]

1. A kind of flag attached to a spear or pike by a crosspiece, and
used by a chief as his standard in battle.
Hang out our banners on the outward walls. Shak.

2. A large piece of silk or other cloth, with a device or motto,
extended on a crosspiece, and borne in a procession, or suspended in
some conspicuous place.

3. Any flag or standard; as, the star-spangled banner. Banner fish
(Zoöl.), a large fish of the genus Histiophorus, of the Swordfish
family, having a broad bannerlike dorsal fin; the sailfish. One
species (H. Americanus) inhabits the North Atlantic.

BANNERED
Ban"nered, a.

Defn: Decorated with a banner or banners "bannered host." Milton.

BANNERET
Ban"ner*et, n.Etym: [OE. baneret, OF. baneret, F. banneret; properly
a dim. of OF. baniere. See Banner.]

1. Originally, a knight who led his vassals into the field under his
own banner; -- commonly used as a title of rank.

2. A title of rank, conferred for heroic deeds, and hence, an order
of knighthood; also, the person bearing such title or rank.

Note: The usual mode of conferring the rank on the field of battle
was by cutting or tearing off the point of the pennon or pointed flag
on the spear of the candidate, thereby making it a banner.

3. A civil officer in some Swiss cantons.

4. A small banner. Shak.

BANNEROL
Ban"ner*ol, n.

Defn: A banderole; esp. a banner displayed at a funeral procession
and set over the tomb. See Banderole.

BANNITION
Ban*ni"tion, n. Etym: [LL. bannitio. See Banish.]

Defn: The act of expulsion.[Obs.] Abp. Laud.

BANNOCK
Ban"nock, n. Etym: [Gael. bonnach.]

Defn: A kind of cake or bread, in shape flat and roundish, commonly
made of oatmeal or barley meal and baked on an iron plate, or
griddle; -- used in Scotland and the northern counties of England.
Jamieson. Bannock fluke, the turbot. [Scot.]

BANNS
Banns, n. pl. Etym: [See Ban.]

Defn: Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or other
place prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if he
knows of just cause why the marriage should not take place.

BANQUET
Ban"quet, n. Etym: [F., a feast, prop. a dim. of banc bench; cf. It.
banchetto, dim. of banco a bench, counter. See Bank a bench, and cf.
Banquette.]

1. A feast; a sumptuous entertainment of eating and drinking; often,
a complimentary or ceremonious feast, followed by speeches.

2. A dessert; a course of sweetmeats; a sweetmeat or sweetmeats.
[Obs.]
We'll dine in the great room, but let the music And banquet be
prepared here. Massinger.

BANQUET
Ban"quet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Banqueted; p. pr. & vb. n. Banqueting.]

Defn: To treat with a banquet or sumptuous entertainment of food; to
feast.
Just in time to banquet The illustrious company assembled there.
Coleridge.

BANQUET
Ban"quet, v.i.

1. To regale one's self with good eating and drinking; to feast.
Were it a draught for Juno when she banquets, I would not taste thy
treasonous offer. Milton.

2. To partake of a dessert after a feast. [Obs.]
Where they did both sup and banquet. Cavendish.

BANQUETTE
Ban*quette", n. Etym: [F. See Banquet, n.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A raised way or foot bank, running along the inside of a
parapet, on which musketeers stand to fire upon the enemy.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A narrow window seat; a raised shelf at the back or the top of
a buffet or dresser.

BANQUETTER; BANQUETER
Ban"quet*ter, n.

Defn: One who banquets; one who feasts or makes feasts.

BANSHEE; BANSHIE
Ban"shee, Ban"shie, n. Etym: [Gael. bean-shith fairy; Gael. & Ir.
bean woman + Gael. sith fairy.]

Defn: A supernatural being supposed by the Irish and Scotch peasantry
to warn a family of the speedy death of one of its members, by
wailing or singing in a mournful voice under the windows of the
house.

BANSSHEE; BANSHIE
Bans"shee, Ban"shie, n. [Gael. bean-shith fairy; Gael. & Ir. bean
woman + Gael. sith fairy.] (Celtic Folklore)

Defn: A supernatural being supposed to warn a family of the
approaching death of one of its members, by wailing or singing in a
mournful voice.

BANSTICKLE
Ban"stic`kle, n. Etym: [OE. ban, bon, bone + stickle prickle, sting.
See Bone, n., Stickleback.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fish, the three-spined stickleback.

BANTAM
Ban"tam, n.

Defn: A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probably
brought from Bantam, a district of Java.

BANTAM WORK
Ban"tam work`.

Defn: Carved and painted work in imitation of Japan ware.

BANTENG
Ban"teng, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The wild ox of Java (Bibos Banteng).

BANTER
Ban"ter, v. t. [ imp. & p. p. Bantered(p. pr. & vb. n. Bantering.]
Etym: [Prob. corrupted fr. F. badiner to joke, or perh. fr. E. bandy
to beat to and fro. See Badinage, and cf. Barter fr. OF. barater.]

1. To address playful good-natured ridicule to, -- the person
addressed, or something pertaining to him, being the subject of the
jesting; to rally; as, he bantered me about my credulity.
Hag-ridden by my own fancy all night, and then bantered on my haggard
looks the next day. W. Irving.

2. To jest about; to ridicule in speaking of, as some trait, habit,
characteristic, and the like. [Archaic]
If they banter your regularity, order, and love of study, banter in
return their neglect of them. Chatham.

3. To delude or trick, -- esp. by way of jest. [Obs.]
We diverted ourselves with bantering several poor scholars with hopes
of being at least his lordship's chaplain. De Foe.

4. To challenge or defy to a match. [Colloq. Southern and Western
U.S.]

BANTER
Ban"ter, n.

Defn: The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good-
humored raillery; pleasantry.
Part banter, part affection. Tennyson.

BANTERER
Ban"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who banters or rallies.

BANTINGISM
Ban"ting*ism, n.

Defn: A method of reducing corpulence by avoiding food containing
much farinaceous, saccharine, or oily matter; -- so called from
William Banting of London.

BANTLING
Bant"ling, n. Etym: [Prob. for bandling, from band, and meaning a
child wrapped in swaddling bands; or cf. G. bäntling a bastard, fr.
bank bench. Cf. Bastard, n.]

Defn: A young or small child; an infant. [Slightly contemptuous or
depreciatory.]
In what out of the way corners genius produces her bantlings. W.
Irving.

BANTU
Ban"tu, n.

Defn: A member of one of the great family of Negroid tribes occupying
equatorial and southern Africa. These tribes include, as important
divisions, the Kafirs, Damaras, Bechuanas, and many tribes whose
names begin with Aba-, Ama-, Ba-, Ma-, Wa-, variants of the Bantu
plural personal prefix Aba-, as in Ba-ntu, or Aba-ntu, itself a
combination of this prefix with the syllable -ntu, a person. --
Ban"tu, a.

BANXRING
Banx"ring, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An East Indian insectivorous mammal of the genus Tupaia.

BANYAN
Ban"yan, n. Etym: [See Banian.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called the
Indian fig (Ficus Indica), whose branches send shoots to the ground,
which take root and become additional trunks, until it may be the
tree covers some acres of ground and is able to shelter thousands of
men.

BANZAI
Ban"zai", interj. [Jap. banzai, banzei, ten thousand years, forever.]

Defn: Lit., May you live ten thousand years; -- used in salutation of
the emperor and as a battle cry. [Japan]

BAOBAB
Ba"o*bab, n. Etym: [The native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata), also naturalized
in India. See Adansonia.

BAPHOMET
Baph"o*met, n.Etym: [A corruption of Mahomet or Mohammed, the Arabian
prophet: cf. Pr. Bafomet, OSp. Mafomat, OPg. Mafameda.]

Defn: An idol or symbolical figure which the Templars were accused of
using in their mysterious rites.

BAPTISM
Bap"tism, n. Etym: [OE. baptim, baptem, OE. baptesme, batisme, F.
baptême, L. baptisma, fr. Gr. , fr. to baptize, fr. to dip in water,
akin to deep, Skr. gah to dip, bathe, v. i.]

Defn: The act of baptizing; the application of water to a person, as
a sacrament or religious ceremony, by which he is initiated into the
visible church of Christ. This is performed by immersion, sprinkling,
or pouring.

BAPTISMAL
Bap*tis"mal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. baptismal.]

Defn: Pertaining to baptism; as, baptismal vows. Baptismal name, the
Christian name, which is given at baptism.

BAPTISMALLY
Bap*tis"mal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a baptismal manner.

BAPTIST
Bap"tist, n. Etym: [L. baptista, G. ]

1. One who administers baptism; -- specifically applied to John, the
forerunner of Christ. Milton.

2. One of a denomination of Christians who deny the validity of
infant baptism and of sprinkling, and maintain that baptism should be
administered to believers alone, and should be by immersion. See
Anabaptist.

Note: In doctrine the Baptists of this country [the United States]
are Calvinistic, but with much freedom and moderation. Amer. Cyc.
Freewill Baptists, a sect of Baptists who are Arminian in doctrine,
and practice open communion.
 -- Seventh-day Baptists, a sect of Baptists who keep the seventh day
of the week, or Saturday, as the Sabbath. See Sabbatarian. The
Dunkers and Campbellites are also Baptists.

BAPTISTERY; BAPTISTRY
Bap"tis*ter*y,Bap"tis*try, n.; pl. Baptisteries (, -tries (. Etym:
[L. baptisterium, Gr. : cf. F. baptistère.] (Arch.)
(a) In early times, a separate building, usually polygonal, used for
baptismal services. Small churches were often changed into
baptisteries when larger churches were built near.
(b) A part of a church containing a font and used for baptismal
services.

BAPTISTIC
Bap*tis"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. ]

Defn: Of or for baptism; baptismal.

BAPTISTICAL
Bap*tis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Baptistic. [R.]

BAPTIZABLE
Bap*tiz"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being baptized; fit to be baptized. Baxter.

BAPTIZATION
Bap`ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: Baptism. [Obs.]
Their baptizations were null. Jer. Taylor.

BAPTIZE
Bap*tize", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Baptized (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Baptizing.] Etym: [F. baptiser, L. baptizare, fr.Gr. . See Baptism.]

1. To administer the sacrament of baptism to.

2. To christen ( because a name is given to infants at their
baptism); to give a name to; to name.
I'll be new baptized; Henceforth I never will be Romeo. Shak.

3. To sanctify; to consecrate.

BAPTIZEMENT
Bap*tize"ment, n.

Defn: The act of baptizing.[R.]

BAPTIZER
Bap*tiz"er, n.

Defn: One who baptizes.

BAR
Bar, n. Etym: [OE. barre, F. barre, fr. LL. barra, W. bar the branch
of a tree, bar, baren branch, Gael. & Ir. barra bar.

1. A piece of wood, metal, or other material, long in proportion to
its breadth or thickness, used as a lever and for various other
purposes, but especially for a hindrance, obstruction, or fastening;
as, the bars of a fence or gate; the bar of a door.
Thou shalt make bars of shittim wood. Ex. xxvi. 26.

2. An indefinite quantity of some substance, so shaped as to be long
in proportion to its breadth and thickness; as, a bar of gold or of
lead; a bar of soap.

3. Anything which obstructs, hinders, or prevents; an obstruction; a
barrier.
Must I new bars to my own joy create Dryden.

4. A bank of sand, gravel, or other matter, esp. at the mouth of a
river or harbor, obstructing navigation.

5. Any railing that divides a room, or office, or hall of assembly,
in order to reserve a space for those having special privileges; as,
the bar of the House of Commons.

6. (Law)
(a) The railing that incloses the place which counsel occupy in
courts of justice. Hence, the phrase at the bar of the court
signifies in open court.
(b) The place in court where prisoners are stationed for arraignment,
trial, or sentence.
(c) The whole body of lawyers licensed in a court or district; the
legal profession.
(d) A special plea constituting a sufficient answer to plaintiff's
action.

7. Any tribunal; as, the bar of public opinion; the bar of God.

8. A barrier or counter, over which liquors and food are passed to
customers; hence, the portion of the room behind the counter where
liquors for sale are kept.

9. (Her.)

Defn: An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifth
part of the field.

10. A broad shaft, or band, or stripe; as, a bar of light; a bar of
color.

11. (Mus.)

Defn: A vertical line across the staff. Bars divide the staff into
spaces which represent measures, and are themselves called measures.

Note: A double bar marks the end of a strain or main division of a
movement, or of a whole piece of music; in psalmody, it marks the end
of a line of poetry. The term bar is very often loosely used for
measure, i.e., for such length of music, or of silence, as is
included between one bar and the next; as, a passage of eight bars;
two bars' rest.

12. (Far.) pl.
(a) The space between the tusks and grinders in the upper jaw of a
horse, in which the bit is placed.
(b) The part of the crust of a horse's hoof which is bent inwards
towards the frog at the heel on each side, and extends into the
center of the sole.

13. (Mining)
(a) A drilling or tamping rod.
(b) A vein or dike crossing a lode.

14. (Arch.)
(a) A gatehouse of a castle or fortified town.
(b) A slender strip of wood which divides and supports the glass of a
window; a sash bar. Bar shoe (Far.), a kind of horseshoe having a bar
across the usual opening at the heel, to protect a tender frog from
injury.
 -- Bar shot, a double headed shot, consisting of a bar, with a ball
or half ball at each end; -- formerly used for destroying the masts
or rigging in naval combat.
 -- Bar sinister (Her.), a term popularly but erroneously used for
baton, a mark of illegitimacy. See Baton.
 -- Bar tracery (Arch.), ornamental stonework resembling bars of iron
twisted into the forms required.
 -- Blank bar (Law). See Blank.
 -- Case at bar (Law), a case presently before the court; a case
under argument.
 -- In bar of, as a sufficient reason against; to prevent.
 -- Matter in bar, or Defence in bar, a plea which is a final defense
in an action.
 -- Plea in bar, a plea which goes to bar or defeat the plaintiff's
action absolutely and entirely.
 -- Trial at bar (Eng. Law), a trial before all the judges of one the
superior courts of Westminster, or before a quorum representing the
full court.

BAR
Bar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Barred (p. pr. & vb. n. Barring.] Etym: [ F.
barrer. See Bar, n.]

1. To fasten with a bar; as, to bar a door or gate.

2. To restrict or confine, as if by a bar; to hinder; to obstruct; to
prevent; to prohibit; as, to bar the entrance of evil; distance bars
our intercourse; the statute bars my right; the right is barred by
time; a release bars the plaintiff's recovery; -- sometimes with up.
He barely looked the idea in the face, and hastened to bar it in its
dungeon. Hawthorne.

3. To except; to exclude by exception.
Nay, but I bar to-night: you shall not gauge me By what we do to-
night. Shak.

4. To cross with one or more stripes or lines.
For the sake of distinguishing the feet more clearly, I have barred
them singly. Burney.

BARACA
Ba*ra"ca, n.

Defn: An international, interdenominational organization of Bible
classes of young men; -- so named in allusion to the Hebrew word
Berachah (Meaning blessing) occurring in 2 Chron. xx. 26 and 1 Chron.
xii.

BARAD
Bar"ad, n. [Gr.  weight.] (Physics)

Defn: The pressure of one dyne per square centimeter; -- used as a
unit of pressure.

BARAESTHESIOMETER; BARESTHESIOMETER
Bar`æs*the`si*om"e*ter, Bar`es*the`si*om"e*ter, n. [Gr.  weight +
æsthesiometer.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for determining the delicacy of the sense of
pressure. -- Bar`æs*the`si*o*met"ric, Bar`es*the`si*o*met"ric (#), a.

BARATHEA
Bar`a*the"a, n.

Defn: A soft fabric with a kind of basket weave and a diapered
pattern.

BARB
Barb, n. Etym: [F. barbe, fr. L. barba beard. See Beard, n.]

1. Beard, or that which resembles it, or grows in the place of it.
The barbel, so called by reason of his barbs, or wattles in his
mouth. Walton.

2. A muffler, worn by nuns and mourners. [Obs.]

3. pl.

Defn: Paps, or little projections, of the mucous membrane, which mark
the opening of the submaxillary glands under the tongue in horses and
cattle. The name is mostly applied when the barbs are inflamed and
swollen. [Written also barbel and barble.]

4. The point that stands backward in an arrow, fishhook, etc., to
prevent it from being easily extracted. Hence: Anything which stands
out with a sharp point obliquely or crosswise to something else.
"Having two barbs or points." Ascham.

5. A bit for a horse. [Obs.] Spenser.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the side branches of a feather, which collectively
constitute the vane. See Feather.

7. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A southern name for the kingfishes of the eastern and
southeastern coasts of the United States; -- also improperly called
whiting.

8. (Bot.)

Defn: A hair or bristle ending in a double hook.

BARB
Barb, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Barbed (p. pr. & vb. n. Barbing.]

1. To shave or dress the beard of. [Obs.]

2. To clip; to mow. [Obs.] Marston.

3. To furnish with barbs, or with that which will hold or hurt like
barbs, as an arrow, fishhook, spear, etc.
But rattling storm of arrows barbed with fire. Milton.

BARB
Barb, n. Etym: [F. barbe, fr. Barbarie.]

1. The Barbary horse, a superior breed introduces from Barbary into
Spain by the Moors.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A blackish or dun variety of the pigeon, originally brought
from Barbary.

BARB
Barb, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. bard.]

Defn: Armor for a horse. Same as 2d Bard, n., 1.

BARBACAN
Bar"ba*can, n.

Defn: See Barbican.

BARBACANAGE
Bar"ba*can*age, n.

Defn: See Barbicanage.

BARBADIAN
Bar*ba"di*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Barbados.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Barbados.

BARBADOS; BARBADOES
Bar*ba"dos or Bar*ba"does, n.

Defn: A West Indian island, giving its name to a disease, to a
cherry, etc. Barbados cherry (Bot.), a genus of trees of the West
Indies (Malpighia) with an agreeably acid fruit resembling a cherry.
 -- Barbados leg (Med.), a species of elephantiasis incident to hot
climates.
 -- Barbados nuts, the seeds of the Jatropha curcas, a plant growing
in South America and elsewhere. The seeds and their acrid oil are
used in medicine as a purgative. See Physic nut.

BARBARA
Bar"ba*ra, n. Etym: [Coined by logicians.] (Logic)

Defn: The first word in certain mnemonic lines which represent the
various forms of the syllogism. It indicates a syllogism whose three
propositions are universal affirmatives. Whately.

BARBARESQUE
Bar`ba*resque", a.

Defn: Barbaric in form or style; as, barbaresque architecture. De
Quincey.

BARBARIAN
Bar*ba"ri*an, n. Etym: [See Barbarous.]

1. A foreigner. [Historical]
Therefore if I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be unto him
that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh shall be a barbarian
unto me.

2. A man in a rule, savage, or uncivilized state.

3. A person destitute of culture. M. Arnold.

4. A cruel, savage, brutal man; one destitute of pity or humanity.
"Thou fell barbarian." Philips.

BARBARIAN
Bar*ba"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of, or pertaining to, or resembling, barbarians; rude;
uncivilized; barbarous; as, barbarian governments or nations.

BARBARIC
Bar*ba"ric, a. Etym: [L. barbaricus foreign, barbaric, Gr. .]

1. Of, or from, barbarian nations; foreign; -- often with reference
to barbarous nations of east. "Barbaric pearl and gold." Milton.

2. Of or pertaining to, or resembling, an uncivilized person or
people; barbarous; barbarian; destitute of refinement. "Wild,
barbaric music." Sir W. Scott.

BARBARISM
Bar"ba*rism, n. Etym: [L. barbarismus, Gr.; cf. F. barbarisme.]

1. An uncivilized state or condition; rudeness of manners; ignorance
of arts, learning, and literature; barbarousness. Prescott.

2. A barbarous, cruel, or brutal action; an outrage.
A heinous barbarism . . . against the honor of marriage. Milton.

3. An offense against purity of style or language; any form of speech
contrary to the pure idioms of a particular language. See Solecism.
The Greeks were the first that branded a foreign term in any of their
writers with the odious name of barbarism. G. Campbell.

BARBARITY
Bar*bar"i*ty, n.; pl. Barbarities. Etym: [From Barbarous.]

Defn: The state or manner of a barbarian; lack of civilization.

2. Cruelty; ferociousness; inhumanity.
Treating Christians with a barbarity which would have shocked the
very Moslem. Macaulay.

3. A barbarous or cruel act.

4. Barbarism; impurity of speech. [Obs.] Swift.

BARBARIZE
Bar"ba*rize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Barbarized (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Barbarizing (.]

1. To become barbarous.
The Roman empire was barbarizing rapidly from the time of Trajan. De
Quincey.

2. To adopt a foreign or barbarous mode of speech.
The ill habit . . . of wretched barbarizing against the Latin and
Greek idiom, with their untutored Anglicisms. Milton.

BARBARIZE
Bar"ba*rize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. barbariser, LL. barbarizare.]

Defn: To make barbarous.
The hideous changes which have barbarized France. Burke.

BARBAROUS
Bar"ba*rous, a. Etym: [L. barbarus, Gr. , strange, foreign; later,
slavish, rude, ignorant; akin to L. balbus stammering, Skr. barbara
stammering, outlandish. Cf. Brave, a.]

1. Being in the state of a barbarian; uncivilized; rude; peopled with
barbarians; as, a barbarous people; a barbarous country.

2. Foreign; adapted to a barbaric taste.[Obs.]
Barbarous gold. Dryden.

3. Cruel; ferocious; inhuman; merciless.
By their barbarous usage he died within a few days, to the grief of
all that knew him. Clarendon.

4. Contrary to the pure idioms of a language.
A barbarous expression G. Campbell.

Syn.
 -- Uncivilized; unlettered; uncultivated; untutored; ignorant;
merciless; brutal. See Ferocious.

BARBAROUSLY
Bar"ba*rous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a barbarous manner.

BARBAROUSNESS
Bar"ba*rous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being barbarous; barbarity; barbarism.

BARBARY
Bar"ba*ry, n. Etym: [Fr. Ar. Barbar the people of Barbary.]

Defn: The countries on the north coast of Africa from Egypt to the
Atlantic. Hence: A Barbary horse; a barb. [Obs.] Also, a kind of
pigeon. Barbary ape (Zoöl.), an ape (Macacus innus) of north Africa
and Gibraltar Rock, being the only monkey inhabiting Europe. It is
very commonly trained by showmen.

BARBASTEL
Bar"ba*stel`, n. Etym: [F. barbastelle.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European bat (Barbastellus communis), with hairy lips.

BARBATE
Bar"bate, a. Etym: [L. barbatus, fr. barba beard. See Barb beard.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Bearded; beset with long and weak hairs.

BARBATED
Bar"ba*ted, a.

Defn: Having barbed points.
A dart uncommonly barbated. T. Warton.

BARBECUE
Bar"be*cue, n. Etym: [In the language of Indians of Guiana, a frame
on which all kinds of flesh and fish are roasted or smoke-dried.]

1. A hog, ox, or other large animal roasted or broiled whole for a
feast.

2. A social entertainment, where many people assemble, usually in the
open air, at which one or more large animals are roasted or broiled
whole.

3. A floor, on which coffee beans are sun-dried.

BARBECUE
Bar"be*cue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Barbecued (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Barbecuing.]

1. To dry or cure by exposure on a frame or gridiron.
They use little or no salt, but barbecue their game and fish in the
smoke. Stedman.

2. To roast or broil whole, as an ox or hog.
Send me, gods, a whole hog barbecued. Pope.

BARBED
Barbed, a. Etym: [See 4th Bare.]

Defn: Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse. See Barded
( which is the proper form.) Sir W. Raleigh.

BARBED
Barbed, a.

Defn: Furnished with a barb or barbs; as, a barbed arrow; barbed
wire. Barbed wire, a wire, or a strand of twisted wires, armed with
barbs or sharp points. It is used for fences.

BARBEL
Bar"bel, n.Etym: [OE. barbel, F. barbeau, dim. of L. barbus barbel,
fr. barba beard. See 1st Barb.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large fresh-water fish ( Barbus vulgaris) found in many
European rivers. Its upper jaw is furnished with four barbels.

3. pl.

Defn: Barbs or paps under the tongued of horses and cattle. See 1st
Barb, 3.

BARBELLATE
Bar"bel*late, a. Etym: [See 1st Barb.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having short, stiff hairs, often barbed at the point. Gray.

BARBELLULATE
Bar*bel"lu*late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Barbellate with diminutive hairs or barbs.

BARBER
Bar"ber, n. Etym: [OE. barbour, OF. barbeor, F. barbier, as if fr. an
assumed L. barbator, fr. barba beard. See 1st Barb.]

Defn: One whose occupation it is to shave or trim the beard, and to
cut and dress the hair of his patrons. Barber's itch. See under Itch.

Note: Formerly the barber practiced some offices of surgery, such as
letting blood and pulling teeth. Hence such terms as barber surgeon (
old form barber chirurgeon), barber surgery, etc.

BARBER
Bar"ber, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Barbered (p. pr. & vb. n. Barbering.]

Defn: To shave and dress the beard or hair of. Shak.

BARBER FISH
Bar"ber fish. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Surgeon fish.

BARBERMONGER
Bar"ber*mon`ger, n.

Defn: A fop. [Obs.]

BARBERRY
Bar"ber*ry, n. Etym: [OE. barbarin, barbere, OF. berbere.] (Bot.)

Defn: A shrub of the genus Berberis, common along roadsides and in
neglected fields. B. vulgaris is the species best known; its oblong
red berries are made into a preserve or sauce, and have been deemed
efficacious in fluxes and fevers. The bark dyes a fine yellow, esp.
the bark of the root. [Also spelt berberry.]

BARBET
Bar"bet, n. Etym: [F. barbet, fr.barbe beard, long hair of certain
animals. See Barb beard.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A variety of small dog, having long curly hair.
(b) A bird of the family Bucconidæ, allied to the Cuckoos, having a
large, conical beak swollen at the base, and bearded with five
bunches of stiff bristles; the puff bird. It inhabits tropical
America and Africa.
(c) A larva that feeds on aphides.

BARBETTE
Bar*bette", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Barbet.] (Fort.)

Defn: A mound of earth or a platform in a fortification, on which
guns are mounted to fire over the parapet. En barbette, In barbette,
said of guns when they are elevated so as to fire over the top of a
parapet, and not through embrasures.
 -- Barbette gun, or Barbette battery, a single gun, or a number of
guns, mounted in barbette, or partially protected by a parapet or
turret.
 -- Barbette carriage, a gun carriage which elevates guns
sufficiently to be in barbette. [See Illust. of Casemate.]

BARBICAN; BARBACAN
Bar"bi*can, Bar"ba*can, n. Etym: [OE. barbican, barbecan, F.
barbacane, LL. barbacana, barbicana, of uncertain origin: cf. Ar.
barbakh aqueduct, sewer. F. barbacane also means, an opening to let
out water, loophole.]

1. ( Fort.) A tower or advanced work defending the entrance to a
castle or city, as at a gate or bridge. It was often large and
strong, having a ditch and drawbridge of its own.

2. An opening in the wall of a fortress, through which missiles were
discharged upon an enemy.

BARBICANAGE; BARBACANAGE
Bar"bi*can*age, Bar"ba*can*age, n. Etym: [LL. barbicanagium. See
Barbican.]

Defn: Money paid for the support of a barbican. [Obs.]

BARBICEL
Bar"bi*cel, n. Etym: [NL. barbicella, dim. of L. barba. See 1st
Barb.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the small hooklike processes on the barbules of
feathers.

BARBIERS
Bar"biers, n. (Med.)

Defn: A variety of paralysis, peculiar to India and the Malabar
coast; -- considered by many to be the same as beriberi in chronic
form.

BARBIGEROUS
Bar*big"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. barba a beard + gerous.]

Defn: Having a beard; bearded; hairy.

BARBITON
Bar"bi*ton, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. .] (Mus.)

Defn: An ancient Greek instrument resembling a lyre.

BARBITURIC ACID
Bar`bi*tu"ric ac"id. (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline substance,

BARBIZON SCHOOL; BARBISON SCHOOL
Bar`bi`zon" school or Bar`bi`son" school. (Painting)

Defn: A French school of the middle of the 19th century centering in
the village of Barbizon near the forest of Fontainebleau. Its members
went straight to nature in disregard of academic tradition, treating
their subjects faithfully and with poetic feeling for color, light,
and atmosphere. It is exemplified, esp. in landscapes, by Corot,
Rousseau, Daubigny, Jules Dupré, and Diaz. Associated with them are
certain painters of animals, as Troyon and Jaque, and of peasant
life, as Millet and Jules Breton.

BARBLE
Bar"ble, n.

Defn: See Barbel.

BARBOTINE
Bar"bo*tine, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A paste of clay used in decorating coarse pottery in relief.

BARBRE
Bar"bre, a.

Defn: Barbarian. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BARBULE
Bar"bule, n. Etym: [L. barbula, fr. barba beard.]

1. A very minute barb or beard. Booth.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the processes along the edges of the barbs of a feather,
by which adjacent barbs interlock. See Feather.

BARCAROLLE
Bar"ca*rolle, n. Etym: [F. barcarolle, fr. It. barcaruola, fr. barca
bark, barge.] (Mus.)
(a) A popular song or melody sung by Venetian gondoliers.
(b) A piece of music composed in imitation of such a song.

BARCON
Bar"con, n. Etym: [It. barcone, fr. barca a bark.]

Defn: A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean.

BARD
Bard, n. Etym: [Of Celtic origin; cf. W. bardd, Arm. barz, Ir. &
Gael. bard, and F. barde.]

1. A professional poet and singer, as among the ancient Celts, whose
occupation was to compose and sing verses in honor of the heroic
achievements of princes and brave men.

2. Hence: A poet; as, the bard of Avon.

BARD; BARDE
Bard, Barde, n. Etym: [F. barde, of doubtful origin.]

1. A piece of defensive (or, sometimes, ornamental) armor for a
horse's neck, breast, and flanks; a barb. [Often in the pl.]

2. pl.

Defn: Defensive armor formerly worn by a man at arms.

3. (Cookery)

Defn: A thin slice of fat bacon used to cover any meat or game.

BARD
Bard, v. t. (Cookery)

Defn: To cover (meat or game) with a thin slice of fat bacon.

BARD
Bard, n. Etym: [Akin to Dan. & Sw. bark, Icel. börkr, LG. & HG.
borke.]

1. The exterior covering of the trunk and branches of a tree; the
rind.

2. Specifically, Peruvian bark. Bark bed. See Bark stove (below).
 -- Bark pit, a pit filled with bark and water, in which hides are
steeped in tanning.
 -- Bark stove (Hort.), a glazed structure for keeping tropical
plants, having a bed of tanner's bark (called a bark bed) or other
fermentable matter which produces a moist heat.

BARDED
Bard"ed, p.a. Etym: [See Bard horse armor.]

1. Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Wearing rich caparisons.
Fifteen hundred men . . . barded and richly trapped. Stow.

BARDIC
Bard"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to bards, or their poetry. "The bardic lays of
ancient Greece." G. P. Marsh.

BARDIGLIO
Bar*di"glio, n. [It.]

Defn: An Italian marble of which the principal varieties occur in the
neighborhood of Carrara and in Corsica. It commonly shows a dark gray
or bluish ground traversed by veins.

BARDISH
Bard"ish, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or written by, a bard or bards. "Bardish
impostures." Selden.

BARDISM
Bard"ism, n.

Defn: The system of bards; the learning and maxims of bards.

BARDLING
Bard"ling, n.

Defn: An inferior bard. J. Cunningham.

BARDSHIP
Bard"ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a bard.

BARE
Bare, a. Etym: [OE. bar, bare, AS. bær; akin to D. & G. baar, OHG.
par, Icel. berr, Sw. & Dan. bar, OSlav. bos barefoot, Lith. basas;
cf. Skr. bhas to shine

1. Without clothes or covering; stripped of the usual covering;
naked; as, his body is bare; the trees are bare.

2. With head uncovered; bareheaded.
When once thy foot enters the church, be bare. Herbert.

3. Without anything to cover up or conceal one's thoughts or actions;
open to view; exposed.
Bare in thy guilt, how foul must thou appear ! Milton.

4. Plain; simple; unadorned; without polish; bald; meager. "Uttering
bare truth." Shak.

5. Destitute; indigent; empty; unfurnished or scantily furnished; --
used with of (rarely with in) before the thing wanting or taken away;
as, a room bare of furniture. "A bare treasury." Dryden.

6. Threadbare; much worn.
It appears by their bare liveries that they live by your bare words.
Shak.

7. Mere; alone; unaccompanied by anything else; as, a bare majority.
"The bare necessaries of life." Addison.
Nor are men prevailed upon by bare of naked truth. South.
Under bare poles (Naut.), having no sail set.

BARE
Bare, n.

1. Surface; body; substance. [R.]
You have touched the very bare of naked truth. Marston.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: That part of a roofing slate, shingle, tile, or metal plate,
which is exposed to the weather.

BARE
Bare, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bared(p. pr. & vb. n. Baring.] Etym: [AS.
barian. See Bare, a.]

Defn: To strip off the covering of; to make bare; as, to bare the
breast.

BARE
Bare.

Defn: Bore; the old preterit of Bear, v.

BAREBACK
Bare"back`, adv.

Defn: On the bare back of a horse, without using a saddle; as, to
ride bareback.

BAREBACKED
Bare"backed`, a.

Defn: Having the back uncovered; as, a barebacked horse.

BAREBONE
Bare"bone`, n.

Defn: A very lean person; one whose bones show through the skin.
Shak.

BAREFACED
Bare"faced`, a.

1. With the face uncovered; not masked. "You will play barefaced."
Shak.

2. Without concealment; undisguised. Hence: Shameless; audacious.
"Barefaced treason." J. Baillie.

BAREFACEDLY
Bare"faced`ly, adv.

Defn: Openly; shamelessly. Locke.

BAREFACEDNESS
Bare"faced`ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being barefaced; shamelessness; assurance;
audaciousness.

BAREFOOT
Bare"foot, a. & adv.

Defn: With the feet bare; without shoes or stockings.

BAREFOOTED
Bare"foot`ed, a.

Defn: Having the feet bare.

BAREGE
Ba*rége", n. Etym: [F. barége, so called from Baréges, a town in the
Pyrenees.]

Defn: A gauzelike fabric for ladies' dresses, veils, etc. of worsted,
silk and worsted, or cotton and worsted.

BAREHANDED
Bare"hand`ed, n.

Defn: Having bare hands.

BAREHEADED; BAREHEAD
Bare"head`ed, Bare"head, a. & adv.

Defn: Having the head uncovered; as, a bareheaded girl.

BARELEGGED
Bare"legged`, a.

Defn: Having the legs bare.

BARELY
Bare"ly, adv.

1. Without covering; nakedly.

2. Without concealment or disguise.

3. Merely; only.
R. For now his son is duke. W. Barely in title, not in revenue. Shak.

4. But just; without any excess; with nothing to spare ( of quantity,
time, etc.); hence, scarcely; hardly; as, there was barely enough for
all; he barely escaped.

BARENECKED
Bare"necked`, a.

Defn: Having the neck bare.

BARENESS
Bare"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being bare.

BARESARK
Bare"sark, n. Etym: [Literally, bare sark or shirt.]

Defn: A Berserker, or Norse warrior who fought without armor, or
shirt of mail. Hence, adverbially: Without shirt of mail or armor.

BARFISH
Bar"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Same as Calico bass.

BARFUL
Bar"ful, a.

Defn: Full of obstructions. [Obs.] Shak.

BARGAIN
Bar"gain, n. Etym: [OE. bargayn, bargany, OF. bargaigne, bargagne,
prob. from a supposed LL. barcaneum, fr. barca a boat which carries
merchandise to the shore; hence, to traffic to and fro, to carry on
commerce in general. See Bark a vessel. ]

1. An agreement between parties concerning the sale of property; or a
contract by which one party binds himself to transfer the right to
some property for a consideration, and the other party binds himself
to receive the property and pay the consideration.
A contract is a bargain that is legally binding. Wharton.

2. An agreement or stipulation; mutual pledge.
And whon your honors mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith.
Shak.

3. A purchase; also ( when not qualified), a gainful transaction; an
advantageous purchase; as, to buy a thing at a bargain.

4. The thing stipulated or purchased; also, anything bought cheap.
She was too fond of her most filthy bargain. Shak.
Bargain and sale (Law), a species of conveyance, by which the
bargainor contracts to convey the lands to the bargainee, and becomes
by such contract a trustee for and seized to the use of the
bargainee. The statute then completes the purchase; i.e., the bargain
vests the use, and the statute vests the possession. Blackstone.
 -- Into the bargain, over and above what is stipulated; besides.
 -- To sell bargains, to make saucy ( usually indelicate) repartees.
[Obs.] Swift.
 -- To strike a bargain, to reach or ratify an agreement. "A bargain
was struck." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Contract; stipulation; purchase; engagement.

BARGAIN
Bar"gain, v. i. Etym: [OE. barganien, OF. bargaigner, F. barguigner,
to hesitate, fr. LL. barcaniare. See Bargain, n.]

Defn: To make a bargain; to make a contract for the exchange of
property or services; -- followed by with and for; as, to bargain
with a farmer for a cow.
So worthless peasants bargain for their wives. Shak.

BARGAIN
Bar"gain, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bargained (p. pr. & vb. n. Bargaining.]

Defn: To transfer for a consideration; to barter; to trade; as, to
bargain one horse for another. To bargain away, to dispose of in a
bargain; -- usually with a sense of loss or disadvantage; as, to
bargain away one's birthright. "The heir . . . had somehow bargained
away the estate." G. Eliot.

BARGAINEE
Bar`gain*ee", n. Etym: [OF. bargaigné, p.p. See Bargain, v. i.] (Law)

Defn: The party to a contract who receives, or agrees to receive, the
property sold. Blackstone.

BARGAINER
Bar"gain*er, n.

Defn: One who makes a bargain; -- sometimes in the sense of
bargainor.

BARGAINOR
Bar`gain*or", n. (Law)

Defn: One who makes a bargain, or contracts with another; esp., one
who sells, or contracts to sell, property to another. Blackstone.

BARGE
Barge, n. Etym: [OF. barge, F. berge, fr. LL. barca, for barica (not
found), prob. fr. L. baris an Egyptian rowboat, fr. Gr. , prob. fr.
Egyptian: cf. Coptic bari a boat. Cf. Bark a vessel.]

1. A pleasure boat; a vessel or boat of state, elegantly furnished
and decorated.

2. A large, roomy boat for the conveyance of passengers or goods; as,
a ship's barge; a charcoal barge.

3. A large boat used by flag officers.

4. A double-decked passenger or freight vessel, towed by a steamboat.
[U.S.]

5. A large omnibus used for excursions. [Local, U.S.]

BARGEBOARD
Barge"board`, n. Etym: [Perh. corrup. of vergeboard; or cf. LL.
bargus a kind of gallows.]

Defn: A vergeboard.

BARGECOURSE
Barge"course`, n. Etym: [See Bargeboard.] (Arch.)

Defn: A part of the tiling which projects beyond the principal
rafters, in buildings where there is a gable. Gwilt.

BARGEE
Bar*gee", n.

Defn: A bargeman. [Eng.]

BARGEMAN
Barge"man, n.

Defn: The man who manages a barge, or one of the crew of a barge.

BARGEMASTTER
Barge"mast`ter, n.

Defn: The proprietor or manager of a barge, or one of the crew of a
barge.

BARGER
Bar"ger, n.

Defn: The manager of a barge. [Obs.]

BARGHEST
Bar"ghest`, n. Etym: [Perh. G. berg mountain + geist demon, or bär a
bear + geist.]

Defn: A goblin, in the shape of a large dog, portending misfortune.
[Also written barguest.]

BARIA
Ba"ri*a, n. Etym: [Cf. Barium.] (Chem.)

Defn: Baryta.

BARIC
Bar"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to barium; as, baric oxide.

BARIC
Bar"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. weight.] (Physics)

Defn: Of or pertaining to weight, esp. to the weight or pressure of
the atmosphere as measured by the barometer.

BARILLA
Ba*ril"la, n. Etym: [Sp. barrilla.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several species of Salsola from which soda is
made, by burning the barilla in heaps and lixiviating the ashes.

2. (Com.)
(a) The alkali produced from the plant, being an impure carbonate of
soda, used for making soap, glass, etc., and for bleaching purposes.
(b) Impure soda obtained from the ashes of any seashore plant, or
kelp. Ure. Copper barilla (Min.), native copper in granular form
mixed with sand, an ore brought from Bolivia; -- called also Barilla
de cobre.

BARILLET
Bar"il*let, n. Etym: [F., dim. of baril barrel.]

Defn: A little cask, or something resembling one. Smart.

BAR IRON
Bar" i`ron.

Defn: See under Iron.

BARITE
Ba"rite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Native sulphate of barium, a mineral occurring in transparent,
colorless, white to yellow crystals (generally tabular), also in
granular form, and in compact massive forms resembling marble. It has
a high specific gravity, and hence is often called heavy spar. It is
a common mineral in metallic veins.

BARITONE
Bar"i*tone, a. & n.

Defn: See Barytone.

BARIUM
Ba"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. bary`s heavy.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the elements, belonging to the alkaline earth group; a
metal having a silver-white color, and melting at a very high
temperature. It is difficult to obtain the pure metal, from the
facility with which it becomes oxidized in the air. Atomic weight,
137. Symbol, Ba. Its oxide called baryta. [Rarely written barytum.]

Note: Some of the compounds of this element are remarkable for their
high specific gravity, as the sulphate, called heavy spar, and the
like. The oxide was called barote, by Guyton de Morveau, which name
was changed by Lavoisier to baryta, whence the name of the metal.

BARK
Bark, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Barked (p. pr. & vb. n. Barking.]

1. To strip the bark from; to peel.

2. To abrade or rub off any outer covering from; as to bark one's
heel.

3. To girdle. See Girdle, v. t., 3.

4. To cover or inclose with bark, or as with bark; as, to bark the
roof of a hut.

BARK
Bark, v. i. Etym: [OE. berken, AS. beorcan; akin to Icel. berkja, and
prob. to E. break.]

1. To make a short, loud, explosive noise with the vocal organs; --
said of some animals, but especially of dogs.

2. To make a clamor; to make importunate outcries.
They bark, and say the Scripture maketh heretics. Tyndale.
Where there is the barking of the belly, there no other commands will
be heard, much less obeyed. Fuller.

BARK
Bark, n.

Defn: The short, loud, explosive sound uttered by a dog; a similar
sound made by some other animals.

BARK; BARQUE
Bark, Barque, n. Etym: [F. barque, fr. Sp. or It. barca, fr. LL.
barca for barica. See Barge.]

1. Formerly, any small sailing vessel, as a pinnace, fishing smack,
etc.; also, a rowing boat; a barge. Now applied poetically to a
sailing vessel or boat of any kind. Byron.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A three-masted vessel, having her foremast and mainmast
squarerigged, and her mizzenmast schooner-rigged.

BARKANTINE
Bark"an*tine, n.

Defn: Same as Barkentine.

BARK BEETLE
Bark" bee`tle. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small beetle of many species (family Scolytidæ), which in the
larval state bores under or in the bark of trees, often doing great
damage.

BARKBOUND
Bark"bound`, a.

Defn: Prevented from growing, by having the bark too firm or close.

BARKEEPER
Bar"keep`er, n.

Defn: One who keeps or tends a bar for the sale of liquors.

BARKEN
Bark"en, a.

Defn: Made of bark. [Poetic] Whittier.

BARKENTINE
Bark"en*tine, n. Etym: [See Bark, n., a vessel.] (Naut.)

Defn: A threemasted vessel, having the foremast square-rigged, and
the others schooner-rigged. [Spelled also barquentine, barkantine,
etc.] See Illust. in Append.

BARKER
Bark"er, n.

1. An animal that barks; hence, any one who clamors unreasonably.

2. One who stands at the doors of shops to urg [Cant, Eng.]

3. A pistol. [Slang] Dickens.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The spotted redshank.

BARKER
Bark"er, n.

Defn: One who strips trees of their bark.

BARKER'S MILL
Bark"er's mill`. Etym: [From Dr. Barker, the inventor.]

Defn: A machine, invented in the 17th century, worked by a form of
reaction wheel. The water flows into a vertical tube and gushes from
apertures in hollow horizontal arms, causing the machine to revolve
on its axis.

BARKERY
Bark"er*y, n.

Defn: A tanhouse.

BARKING IRONS
Bark"ing i`rons.

1. Instruments used in taking off the bark of trees. Gardner.

2. A pair of pistols. [Slang]

BARKLESS
Bark"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of bark.

BARK LOUSE
Bark" louse`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect of the family Coccidæ, which infests the bark of
trees and vines.

Note: The wingless females assume the shape of scales. The bark louse
of vine is Pulvinaria innumerabilis; that of the pear is Lecanium
pyri. See Orange scale.

BARKY
Bark"y, a.

Defn: Covered with, or containing, bark. "The barky fingers of the
elm." Shak.

BARLEY
Bar"ley, n. Etym: [OE. barli, barlich, AS. bærlic; bere barley + lic
(which is prob. the same as E. like, adj., or perh. a form of AS.
leac leek). AS. bere is akin to Icel, barr barley, Goth. barizeins
made of barley, L. far spelt; cf. W. barlys barley, bara bread.
Farina, 6th Bear.] (Bot.)

Defn: A valuable grain, of the family of grasses, genus Hordeum, used
for food, and for making malt, from which are prepared beer, ale, and
whisky. Barley bird (Zoöl.), the siskin.
 -- Barley sugar, sugar boiled till it is brittle (formerly with a
decoction of barley) and candied.
 -- Barley water, a decoction of barley, used in medicine, as a
nutritive and demulcent.

BARLEYBRAKE; BARLEYBREAK
Bar"ley*brake` Bar"ley*break`, n.

Defn: An ancient rural game, commonly played round stacks of barley,
or other grain, in which some of the party attempt to catch others
who run from a goal.

BARLEY-BREE
Bar"ley-bree`, n. Etym: [Lit. barley broth. See Brew.]

Defn: Liquor made from barley; strong ale. [Humorous] [Scot.] Burns.

BARLEYCORN
Bar"ley*corn`, n. Etym: [See Corn.]

1. A grain or "corn" of barley.

2. Formerly , a measure of length, equal to the average length of a
grain of barley; the third part of an inch. John Barleycorn, a
humorous personification of barley as the source of malt liquor or
whisky.

BARM
Barm, n. Etym: [OE. berme, AS. beorma; akin to Sw. bärma, G. bärme,
and prob. L. fermenium. *93.]

Defn: Foam rising upon beer, or other malt liquors, when fermenting,
and used as leaven in making bread and in brewing; yeast. Shak.

BARM
Barm, n. Etym: [OE. bearm, berm, barm, AS. beorma; akin to E. bear to
support.]

Defn: The lap or bosom. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BARMAID
Bar"maid`, n.

Defn: A girl or woman who attends the customers of a bar, as in a
tavern or beershop.
A bouncing barmaid. W. Irving.

BARMASTER
Bar"mas`ter, n. Etym: [Berg + master: cf. G. Bergmeister.]

Defn: Formerly, a local judge among miners; now, an officer of the
barmote. [Eng.]

BARMCLOTH
Barm"cloth`, n.

Defn: Apron. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BARMECIDAL
Bar"me*ci`dal, a. Etym: [See Barmecide.]

Defn: Unreal; illusory. "A sort of Barmecidal feast." Hood.

BARMECIDE
Bar"me*cide, n. Etym: [A prince of the Barmecide family, who, as
related in the "Arabian Nights' Tales", pretended to set before the
hungry Shacabac food, on which the latter pretended to feast.]

Defn: One who proffers some illusory advantage or benefit. Also used
as an adj.: Barmecidal. "A Barmecide feast." Dickens.

BARMOTE
Bar"mote`, n. Etym: [Barg + mote meeting.]

Defn: A court held in Derbyshire, in England, for deciding
controversies between miners. Blount.

BARMY
Barm"y, a.

Defn: Full of barm or froth; in a ferment. "Barmy beer." Dryden.

BARMY
Barm"y (bärm"y), a.

Defn: Full of barm or froth; in a ferment. "Barmy beer."  Dryden.

BARN
Barn, n. Etym: [OE. bern, AS. berern, bern; bere barley + ern, ærn, a
close place. Barley.]

Defn: A covered building used chiefly for storing grain, hay, and
other productions of a farm. In the United States a part of the barn
is often used for stables. Barn owl (Zoöl.), an owl of Europe and
America (Aluco flammeus, or Strix flammea), which frequents barns and
other buildings.
 -- Barn swallow (Zoöl.), the common American swallow (Hirundo
horreorum), which attaches its nest of mud to the beams and rafters
of barns.

BARN
Barn, v. t.

Defn: To lay up in a barn. [Obs.] Shak.
Men . . . often barn up the chaff, and burn up the grain. Fuller.

BARN
Barn, n.

Defn: A child. [Obs.] See Bairn.

BARNABITE
Bar"na*bite, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A member of a religious order, named from St. Barnabas.

BARNACLE
Bar"na*cle, n. Etym: [Prob. from E. barnacle a kind of goose, which
was popularly supposed to grow from this shellfish; but perh. from
LL. bernacula for pernacula, dim. of perna ham, sea mussel; cf. Gr.
ham Cf. F. bernacle, barnacle, E. barnacle a goose; and Ir.
bairneach, barneach, limpet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any cirriped crustacean adhering to rocks, floating timber,
ships, etc., esp. (a) the sessile species (genus Balanus and allies),
and (b) the stalked or goose barnacles (genus Lepas and allies). See
Cirripedia, and Goose barnacle. Barnacle eater (Zoöl.), the orange
filefish.
 -- Barnacle scale (Zoöl.), a bark louse (Ceroplastes
cirripediformis) of the orange and quince trees in Florida. The
female scale curiously resembles a sessile barnacle in form.

BARNACLE
Bar"na*cle, n. Etym: [See Bernicle.]

Defn: A bernicle goose.

BARNACLE
Bar"na*cle, n. Etym: [OE. bernak, bernacle; cf. OF. bernac, and Prov.
F. (Berri) berniques, spectacles.]

1. pl. (Far.)

Defn: An instrument for pinching a horse's nose, and thus restraining
him.

Note: [Formerly used in the sing.]
The barnacles . . . give pain almost equal to that of the switch.
Youatt.

2. pl.

Defn: Spectacles; -- so called from their resemblance to the
barnacles used by farriers. [Cant, Eng.] Dickens.

BARNBURNER
Barn"burn`er, n. [So called in allusion to the fable of the man who
burned his barn in order to rid it of rats.]

Defn: A member of the radical section of the Democratic party in New
York, about the middle of the 19th century, which was hostile to
extension of slavery, public debts, corporate privileges, etc., and
supported Van Buren against Cass for president in 1848; --opposed to
Hunker. [Political Cant, U. S.]

BARNSTORMER
Barn"storm`er, n.  [Barn + storm, v.]

Defn: An itinerant theatrical player who plays in barns when a
theatre is lacking; hence, an inferior actor, or one who plays in the
country away from the larger cities. --Barn"storm`ing, n. [Theatrical
Cant]

BARNYARD
Barn"yard`, n.

Defn: A yard belonging to a barn.

BAROCCO
Ba*roc"co, a. Etym: [It.] (Arch.)

Defn: See Baroque.

BAROCYCLONOMETER
Bar`o*cy`clon*om"e*ter, n. [Gr.  weight + cyclone + -meter.]
(Meteorol.)

Defn: An aneroid barometer for use with accompanying graphic diagrams
and printed directions designed to aid mariners to interpret the
indications of the barometer so as to determine the existence of a
violent storm at a distance of several hundred miles.

BAROGRAM
Bar"o*gram, n. [Gr.  weight + -gram.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A tracing, usually made by the barograph, showing graphically
the variations of atmospheric pressure for a given time.

BAROGRAPH
Bar"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. weight + -graph.] (Meteor.)

Defn: An instrument for recording automatically the variations of
atmospheric pressure.

BAROKO
Ba*ro"ko, n. Etym: [A mnemonic word.] (Logic)

Defn: A form or mode of syllogism of which the first proposition is a
universal affirmative, and the other two are particular negative.

BAROLOGY
Ba*rol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. weight + -logy.]

Defn: The science of weight or gravity.

BAROMACROMETER
Bar`o*ma*crom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. weight + long + -meter.] (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the weight and length of a
newborn infant.

BAROMETER
Ba*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. weight + -meter: cf. F. baromètre.]

Defn: An instrument for determining the weight or pressure of the
atmosphere, and hence for judging of the probable changes of weather,
or for ascertaining the height of any ascent.

Note: The barometer was invented by Torricelli at Florence about
1643. It is made in its simplest form by filling a graduated glass
tube about 34 inches long with mercury and inverting it in a cup
containing mercury. The column of mercury in the tube descends until
balanced by the weight of the atmosphere, and its rise or fall under
varying conditions is a measure of the change in the atmospheric
pressure. At the sea level its ordinary height is about 30 inches
(760 millimeters). See Sympiesometer. Nichol. Aneroid barometer. See
Aneroid barometer, under Aneroid.
 -- Marine barometer, a barometer with tube contracted at bottom to
prevent rapid oscillations of the mercury, and suspended in gimbals
from an arm or support on shipboard.
 -- Mountain barometer, a portable mercurial barometer with tripod
support, and long scale, for measuring heights.
 -- Siphon barometer, a barometer having a tube bent like a hook with
the longer leg closed at the top. The height of the mercury in the
longer leg shows the pressure of the atmosphere.
 -- Wheel barometer, a barometer with recurved tube, and a float,
from which a cord passes over a pulley and moves an index.

BAROMETRIC; BAROMETRICAL
Bar`o*met"ric, Bar`o*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the barometer; made or indicated by a barometer;
as, barometric changes; barometrical observations.

BAROMETRICALLY
Bar`o*met"ric*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By means of a barometer, or according to barometric
observations.

BAROMETROGRAPH
Bar`o*met"ro*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. weight + measure + -graph.]

Defn: A form of barometer so constructed as to inscribe of itself
upon paper a record of the variations of atmospheric pressure.

BAROMETRY
Ba*rom"e*try, n.

Defn: The art or process of making barometrical measurements.

BAROMETZ
Bar"o*metz, n. Etym: [Cf. Russ. baranets' clubmoss.] (Bot.)

Defn: The woolly-skinned rhizoma or rootstock of a fern (Dicksonia
barometz), which, when specially prepared and inverted, somewhat
resembles a lamb; -- called also Scythian lamb.

BARON
Bar"on, n. Etym: [OE. baron, barun, OF. baron, accus. of ber, F.
baron, prob. fr. OHG. baro (not found) bearer, akin to E. bear to
support; cf. O. Frisian bere, LL. baro, It. barone, Sp. varon. From
the meaning bearer (of burdens) seem to have come the senses strong
man, man (in distinction from woman), which is the oldest meaning in
French, and lastly, nobleman. Cf. L. baro, simpleton. See Bear to
support.]

1. A title or degree of nobility; originally, the possessor of a
fief, who had feudal tenants under him; in modern times, in France
and Germany, a nobleman next in rank below a count; in England, a
nobleman of the lowest grade in the House of Lords, being next below
a viscount.

Note: "The tenants in chief from the Crown, who held lands of the
annual value of four hundred pounds, were styled Barons; and it is to
them, and not to the members of the lowest grade of the nobility (to
whom the title at the present time belongs), that reference is made
when we read of the Barons of the early days of England's history . .
. . Barons are addressed as 'My Lord,' and are styled 'Right
Honorable.' All their sons and daughters 'Honorable.'" Cussans.

2. (Old Law)

Defn: A husband; as, baron and feme, husband and wife. [R.] Cowell.
Baron of beef, two sirloins not cut asunder at the backbone.
 -- Barons of the Cinque Ports, formerly members of the House of
Commons, elected by the seven Cinque Ports, two for each port.
 -- Baron of the exchequer, the judges of the Court of Exchequer, one
of the three ancient courts of England, now abolished.

BARONAGE
Bar"on*age, n. Etym: [OE. barnage, baronage, OF.barnage, F.
baronnage; cf. LL. baronagium.]

1. The whole body of barons or peers.
The baronage of the kingdom. Bp. Burnet.

2. The dignity or rank of a baron.

3. The land which gives title to a baron. [Obs.]

BARONESS
Bar"on*ess, n.

Defn: A baron's wife; also, a lady who holds the baronial title in
her own right; as, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts.

BARONET
Bar"on*et, n. Etym: [Baron + -et.]

Defn: A dignity or degree of honor next below a baron and above a
knight, having precedency of all orders of knights except those of
the Garter. It is the lowest degree of honor that is hereditary. The
baronets are commoners.

Note: The order was founded by James I. in 1611, and is given by
patent. The word, however, in the sense of a lesser baron, was in use
long before. "Baronets have the title of 'Sir' prefixed to their
Christian names; their surnames being followed by their dignity,
usually abbreviated Bart. Their wives are addressed as 'Lady' or
'Madam'. Their sons are possessed of no title beyond 'Esquire.'"
Cussans.

BARONETAGE
Bar"on*et*age, n.

1. State or rank of a baronet.

2. The collective body of baronets.

BARONETCY
Bar"on*et*cy, n.

Defn: The rank or patent of a baronet.

BARONG
Ba*rong", n. [Native name.]

Defn: A kind of cutting weapon with a thick back and thin razorlike
edge, used by the Moros of the Philippine Islands.

BARONIAL
Ba*ro"ni*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a baron or a barony. "Baronial tenure." Hallam.

BARONY
Bar"o*ny, n.; pl. Baronies (. Etym: [OF. baronie, F. baronnie, LL.
baronia. See Baron.]

1. The fee or domain of a baron; the lordship, dignity, or rank of a
baron.

2. In Ireland, a territorial division, corresponding nearly to the
English hundred, and supposed to have been originally the district of
a native chief. There are 252 of these baronies. In Scotland, an
extensive freehold. It may be held by a commoner. Brande & C.

BAROQUE
Ba*roque", a. Etym: [F.; cf. It. barocco.] (Arch.)

Defn: In bad taste; grotesque; odd.

BAROSCOPE
Bar"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. weight + -scope: cf. F. baroscope.]

Defn: Any instrument showing the changes in the weight of the
atmosphere; also, less appropriately, any instrument that indicates -
or foreshadows changes of the weather, as a deep vial of liquid
holding in suspension some substance which rises and falls with
atmospheric changes.

BAROSCOPIC; BAROSCOPICAL
Bar`o*scop"ic, Bar`o*scop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or determined by, the baroscope.

BAROTHERMOGRAPH
Bar`o*ther"mo*graph, n. [Gr.  weight + thermograph.]

Defn: An instrument for recording both pressure and temperature, as
of the atmosphere.

BAROUCHE
Ba*rouche", n. Etym: [G. barutsche, It. baroccio, biroccio, LL.
barrotium, fr. L. birotus two-wheeled; bi=bis twice + rota wheel.]

Defn: A four-wheeled carriage, with a falling top, a seat on the
outside for the driver, and two double seats on the inside arranged
so that the sitters on the front seat face those on the back seat.

BAROUCHET
Ba`rou*chet", n.

Defn: A kind of light barouche.

BARPOST
Bar"post`, n.

Defn: A post sunk in the ground to receive the bars closing a passage
into a field.

BARQUE
Barque, n.

Defn: Same as 3d Bark, n.

BARRACAN
Bar"ra*can, n. Etym: [F. baracan, bouracan (cf. Pr. barracan, It.
baracane, Sp. barragan, Pg. barregana, LL. barracanus), fr. Ar.
barrakan a kind of black gown, perh. fr. Per. barak a garment made of
camel's hair.]

Defn: A thick, strong stuff, somewhat like camlet; -- still used for
outer garments in the Levant.

BARRACK
Bar"rack, n. Etym: [F. baraque, fr. It. baracca (cf. Sp. barraca),
from LL. barra bar. See Bar, n.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A building for soldiers, especially when in garrison. Commonly
in the pl., originally meaning temporary huts, but now usually
applied to a permanent structure or set of buildings.
He lodged in a miserable hut or barrack, composed of dry branches and
thatched with straw. Gibbon.

2. A movable roof sliding on four posts, to cover hay, straw, etc.
[Local, U.S.]

BARRACK
Bar"rack, v. t.

Defn: To supply with barracks; to establish in barracks; as, to
barrack troops.

BARRACK
Bar"rack, v. i.

Defn: To live or lodge in barracks.

BARRACLADE
Bar"ra*clade, n. Etym: [D. baar, OD. baer, naked, bare + kleed
garment, i.e., cloth undressed or without nap.]

Defn: A home-made woolen blanket without nap. [Local, New York]
Bartlett.

BARRACOON
Bar"ra*coon`, n. Etym: [Sp. or Pg. barraca. See Barrack.]

Defn: A slave warehouse, or an inclosure where slaves are quartered
temporarily. Du Chaillu.

BARRACUDA; BARRACOUTA
Bar`ra*cu"da, Bar`ra*cou"ta, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A voracious pikelike, marine fish, of the genus Sphyræna,
sometimes used as food.

Note: That of Europe and our Atlantic coast is Sphyræna spet (or S.
vulgaris); a southern species is S. picuda; the Californian is S.
argentea.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large edible fresh-water fish of Australia and New Zealand
(Thyrsites atun).

BARRAGE
Bar"rage, n. Etym: [F., fr. barrer to bar, from barre bar.] (Engin.)

Defn: An artificial bar or obstruction placed in a river or water
course to increase the depth of water; as, the barrages of the Nile.

BARRAMUNDI
Bar`ra*mun"di, n. [Written also barramunda.] [Native name.] (Zoöl.)
 (a) A remarkable Australian fresh-water ganoid fish of the genus
Ceratodus.
 (b) An Australian river fish (Osteoglossum Leichhardtii).

BARRANCA
Bar*ran"ca, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A ravine caused by heavy rains or a watercourse. [Texas & N.
Mex.]

BARRAS
Bar"ras, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A resin, called also galipot.

BARRATOR
Bar"ra*tor, n. Etym: [OE. baratour, OF. barateor deceiver, fr. OF.
barater, bareter, to deceive, cheat, barter. See Barter, v. i.]

Defn: One guilty of barratry.

BARRATROUS
Bar"ra*trous, (Law)

Defn: Tainter with, or constituting, barratry.
 -- Bar"ra*trous*ly, adv. Kent.

BARRATRY
Bar"ra*try, n. Etym: [Cf. F. baraterie, LL. barataria. See Barrator,
and cf. Bartery.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The practice of exciting and encouraging lawsuits and quarrels.
[Also spelt barretry.] Coke. Blackstone.

2. (Mar. Law)

Defn: A fraudulent breach of duty or willful act of known illegality
on the part of a master of a ship, in his character of master, or of
the mariners, to the injury of the owner of the ship or cargo, and
without his consent. It includes every breach of trust committed with
dishonest purpose, as by running away with the ship, sinking or
deserting her, etc., or by embezzling the cargo. Kent. Part.

3. (Scots Law)

Defn: The crime of a judge who is influenced by bribery in
pronouncing judgment. Wharton.

BARRED OWL
Barred" owl". (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large American owl (Syrnium nebulosum); -- so called from the
transverse bars of a dark brown color on the breast.

BARREL
Bar"rel, n.Etym: [OE. barel, F. baril, prob. fr. barre bar. Cf.
Barricade.]

1. A round vessel or cask, of greater length than breadth, and
bulging in the middle, made of staves bound with hoops, and having
flat ends or heads.

2. The quantity which constitutes a full barrel. This varies for
different articles and also in different places for the same article,
being regulated by custom or by law. A barrel of wine is 31

3. A solid drum, or a hollow cylinder or case; as, the barrel of a
windlass; the barrel of a watch, within which the spring is coiled.

4. A metallic tube, as of a gun, from which a projectile is
discharged. Knight.

5. A jar. [Obs.] 1 Kings xvii. 12.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The hollow basal part of a feather. Barrel bulk (Com.), a
measure equal to five cubic feet, used in estimating capacity, as of
a vessel for freight.
 -- Barrel drain (Arch.), a drain in the form of a cylindrical tube.
 -- Barrel of a boiler, the cylindrical part of a boiler, containing
the flues.
 -- Barrel of the ear (Anat.), the tympanum, or tympanic cavity.
 -- Barrel organ, an instrument for producing music by the action of
a revolving cylinder.
 -- Barrel vault. See under Vault.

BARREL
Bar"rel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Barreled (Barrelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Barreling, or Barrelling.]

Defn: To put or to pack in a barrel or barrels.

BARRELED; BARRELLED
Bar"reled, Bar"relled, a.

Defn: Having a barrel; -- used in composition; as, a double-barreled
gun.

BARREL PROCESS
Bar"rel proc"ess. (Metal.)

Defn: A process of extracting gold or silver by treating the ore in a
revolving barrel, or drum, with mercury, chlorine, cyanide solution,
or other reagent.

BARREN
Bar"ren, a. Etym: [OE. barein, OF. brehaing, brehaigne, baraigne, F.
bréhaigne; of uncertain origin; cf. Arm. brékha, markha, sterile; LL.
brana a sterile mare, principally in Aquitanian and Spanish
documents; Bisc. barau, baru, fasting.]

1. Incapable of producing offspring; producing no young; sterile; --
She was barren of children. Bp. Hall.

2. Not producing vegetation, or useful vegetation; "Barren mountain
tracts." Macaulay.

3. Unproductive; fruitless; unprofitable; empty.
Brilliant but barren reveries. Prescott.
Some schemes will appear barren of hints and matter. Swift.

4. Mentally dull; stupid. Shak. Barren flower, a flower which has
only stamens without a pistil, or which as neither stamens nor
pistils.
 -- Barren Grounds (Geog.), a vast tract in British America northward
of the forest regions.
 -- Barren Ground bear (Zoöl.), a peculiar bear, inhabiting the
Barren Grounds, now believed to be a variety of the brown bear of
Europe.
 -- Barren Ground caribou (Zoöl.), a small reindeer (Rangifer
Groenlandicus) peculiar to the Barren Grounds and Greenland.

BARREN
Bar"ren, n.

1. A tract of barren land.

2. pl.

Defn: Elevated lands or plains on which grow small trees, but not
timber; as, pine barrens; oak barrens. They are not necessarily
sterile, and are often fertile. [Amer.] J. Pickering.

BARRENLY
Bar"ren*ly, adv.

Defn: Unfruitfully; unproductively.

BARRENNESS
Bar"ren*ness, n.

Defn: The condition of being barren; sterility; unproductiveness.
A total barrenness of invention. Dryden.

BARRENWORT
Bar"ren*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An herbaceous plant of the Barberry family (Epimedium alpinum),
having leaves that are bitter and said to be sudorific.

BARRET
Bar"ret, n. Etym: [F. barrette, LL. barretum a cap. See Berretta, and
cf. Biretta.]

Defn: A kind of cap formerly worn by soldiers; -- called also barret
cap. Also, the flat cap worn by Roman Catholic ecclesiastics.

BARRETTER
Bar"ret*ter, n. [OF. bareter to exchange. Cf. Barter.] (Wireless
Teleg.)

Defn: A thermal cymoscope which operates by increased resistance when
subjected to the influence of electric waves. The original form
consisted of an extremely fine platinum wire loop attached to
terminals and inclosed in a small glass or silver bulb. In a later
variety, called the liquid barretter, wire is replace by a column of
liquid in a very fine capillary tube.

BARRICADE
Bar`ri*cade", n. Etym: [F. barricade, fr. Sp. barricada, orig. a
barring up with casks; fr. barrica cask, perh. fr. LL. barra bar. See
Bar, n., and cf. Barrel, n.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A fortification, made in haste, of trees, earth, palisades,
wagons, or anything that will obstruct the progress or attack of an
enemy. It is usually an obstruction formed in streets to block an
enemy's access.

2. Any bar, obstruction, or means of defense.
Such a barricade as would greatly annoy, or absolutely stop, the
currents of the atmosphere. Derham.

BARRICADE
Bar`ri*cade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Barricaded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Barricading.] Etym: [Cf. F. barricader. See Barricade, n.]

Defn: To fortify or close with a barricade or with barricades; to
stop up, as a passage; to obstruct; as, the workmen barricaded the
streets of Paris.
The further end whereof [a bridge] was barricaded with barrels.
Hakluyt.

BARRICADER
Bar`ri*cad"er, n.

Defn: One who constructs barricades.

BARRICADO
Bar`ri*ca"do, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Barricade. Shak.

BARRIER
Bar"ri*er, n. Etym: [OE. barrere, barere, F. barrière, fr. barre bar.
See Bar, n.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A carpentry obstruction, stockade, or other obstacle made in a
passage in order to stop an enemy.

2. A fortress or fortified town, on the frontier of a country,
commanding an avenue of approach.

3. pl.

Defn: A fence or railing to mark the limits of a place, or to keep
back a crowd.
No sooner were the barriers opened, than he paced into the lists. Sir
W. Scott.

4. An any obstruction; anything which hinders approach or attack.
"Constitutional barriers." Hopkinson.

5. Any limit or boundary; a line of separation.
'Twixt that [instinct] and reason, what a nice barrier ! Pope.
Barrier gate, a heavy gate to close the opening through a barrier.
 -- Barrier reef, a form of coral reef which runs in the general
direction of the shore, and incloses a lagoon channel more or less
extensive.
 -- To fight at barriers, to fight with a barrier between, as a
martial exercise. [Obs.]

BARRIGUDO
Bar`ri*gu"do, n. Etym: [Native name, fr. Sp. barrigudo big-bellied.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, dark-colored, South American monkey, of the genus
Lagothrix, having a long prehensile tail.

BARRINGOUT
Bar`ring*out", n.

Defn: The act of closing the doors of a schoolroom against a
schoolmaster; -- a boyish mode of rebellion in schools. Swift.

BARRIO
Bar"ri*o, n.; pl. Barrios (#). [Sp.]

Defn: In Spain and countries colonized by Spain, a village, ward, or
district outside a town or city to whose jurisdiction it belongs.

BARRISTER
Bar"ris*ter, n. Etym: [From Bar, n.]

Defn: Counselor at law; a counsel admitted to plead at the bar, and
undertake the public trial of causes, as distinguished from an
attorney or solicitor. See Attorney. [Eng.]

BARROOM
Bar"room`, n.

Defn: A room containing a bar or counter at which liquors are sold.

BARROW
Bar"row, n. Etym: [OE. barow, fr. AS. beran to bear. See Bear to
support, and cf. Bier.]

1. A support having handles, and with or without a wheel, on which
heavy or bulky things can be transported by hand. See Handbarrow, and
Wheelbarrow.

2. (Salt Works)

Defn: A wicker case, in which salt is put to drain.

BARROW
Bar"row, n. Etym: [OE. barow, bargh, AS. bearg, bearh; akin to Icel.
börgr, OHG. barh, barug, G. barch.

Defn: A hog, esp. a male hog castrated. Holland.

BARROW
Bar"row, n. Etym: [OE. bergh, AS. beorg, beorh, hill, sepulchral
mound; akin to G. berg mountain, Goth. bairgahei hill, hilly country,
and perh. to Skr. b high, OIr. brigh mountain. Cf. Berg, Berry a
mound, and Borough an incorporated town.]

1. A large mound of earth or stones over the remains of the dead; a
tumulus.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A heap of rubbish, attle, etc.

BARROWIST
Bar"row*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Henry Barrowe, one of the founders of
Independency or Congregationalism in England. Barrowe was executed
for nonconformity in 1953.

BARRULET
Bar"ru*let, n. Etym: [Dim. of bar, n.] (Her.)

Defn: A diminutive of the bar, having one fourth its width.

BARRULY
Bar"ru*ly, a. (Her.)

Defn: Traversed by barrulets or small bars; -- said of the field.

BARRY
Bar"ry, a. (Her.)

Defn: , Divided into bars; -- said of the field.

BARSE
Barse, n. Etym: [AS. bears, bærs, akin to D. baars, G. bars, barsch.
Cf. 1st Bass, n.]

Defn: The common perch. See 1st Bass. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

BARTENDER
Bar"tend`er, n.

Defn: A barkeeper.

BARTER
Bar"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bartered (p. pr. & vb. n. Bartering.]
Etym: [OE. bartren, OF. barater, bareter, to cheat, exchange, perh.
fr. Gr. to do, deal (well or ill), use practices or tricks, or perh.
fr. Celtic; cf. Ir. brath treachery, W. brad. Cf. Barrator.]

Defn: To traffic or trade, by exchanging one commodity for another,
in distinction from a sale and purchase, in which money is paid for
the commodities transferred; to truck.

BARTER
Bar"ter, v. t.

Defn: To trade or exchange in the way of barter; to exchange
(frequently for an unworthy consideration); to traffic; to truck; --
sometimes followed by away; as, to barter away goods or honor.

BARTER
Bar"ter, n.

1. The act or practice of trafficking by exchange of commodities; an
exchange of goods.
The spirit of huckstering and barter. Burke.

2. The thing given in exchange.

Syn.
 -- Exchange; dealing; traffic; trade; truck.

BARTERER
Bar"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who barters.

BARTERY
Bar"ter*y, n.

Defn: Barter. [Obs.] Camden.

BARTH
Barth, n. Etym: [Etymol. unknown.]

Defn: A place of shelter for cattle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

BARTHOLOMEW TIDE
Bar*thol"o*mew tide`.

Defn: Time of the festival of St. Bartholomew, August 24th. Shak.

BARTIZAN
Bar"ti*zan`, n. Etym: [Cf. Brettice.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small, overhanging structure for lookout or defense, usually
projecting at an angle of a building or near an entrance gateway.

BARTLETT
Bart"lett, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A Bartlett pear, a favorite kind of pear, which originated in
England about 1770, and was called Williams' Bonchrétien. It was
brought to America, and distributed by Mr. Enoch Bartlett, of
Dorchester, Massachusetts.

BARTON
Bar"ton, n. Etym: [AS. beret courtyard, grange; bere barley + t an
inclosure. ]

1. The demesne lands of a manor; also, the manor itself. [Eng.]
Burton.

2. A farmyard. [Eng.] Southey.

BARTRAM
Bar"tram, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Bertram. Johnson.

BARWAY
Bar"way`, n.

Defn: A passage into a field or yard, closed by bars made to take out
of the posts.

BARWISE
Bar"wise`, adv. (Her.)

Defn: Horizontally.

BARWOOD
Bar"wood`, n.

Defn: A red wood of a leguminous tree (Baphia nitida), from Angola
and the Gaboon in Africa. It is used as a dyewood, and also for
ramrods, violin bows and turner's work.

BARYCENTRIC
Bar`y*cen"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. heavy + center.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the center of gravity. See Barycentric
calculus, under Calculus.

BARYPHONY
Ba*ryph"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. heavy + a sound voice.] (Med.)

Defn: Difficulty of speech.

BARYSPHERE
Bar"y*sphere, n. [Gr.  heavy + sphere.] (Geol.)

Defn: The heavy interior portion of the earth, within the
lithosphere.

BARYTA
Ba*ry"ta, n. Etym: [Gr. heavy. Cf. Baria.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oxide of barium (or barytum); a heavy earth with a specific
gravity above 4.

BARYTES
Ba*ry"tes, n. Etym: [Gr. heavy: cf. Gr. heaviness, F. baryte.] (Min.)

Defn: Barium sulphate, generally called heavy spar or barite. See
Barite.

BARYTIC
Ba*ryt"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to baryta.

BARYTO-CALCITE
Ba*ry"to-cal"cite, n. Etym: [Baryta + calcite.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a white or gray color, occurring massive or
crystallized. It is a compound of the carbonates of barium and
calcium.

BARYTONE; BARITONE
Bar"y*tone, Bar"i*tone, a. Etym: [Gr. ; heavy + tone.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: Grave and deep, as a kind of male voice.

2. (Greek Gram.)

Defn: Not marked with an accent on the last syllable, the grave
accent being understood.

BARYTONE; BARITONE
Bar"y*tone, Bar"i*tone, n. Etym: [F. baryton: cf. It. baritono.]

1. (Mus.)
(a) A male voice, the compass of which partakes of the common bass
and the tenor, but which does not descend as low as the one, nor rise
as high as the other.
(b) A person having a voice of such range.
(c) The viola di gamba, now entirely disused.

2. (Greek Gram.)

Defn: A word which has no accent marked on the last syllable, the
grave accent being understood.

BARYTUM
Ba*ry"tum, n. Etym: [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: The metal barium. See Barium. [R.]

BASAL
Ba"sal, a.

Defn: Relating to, or forming, the base. Basal cleavage. See under
Cleavage.
 -- Basal plane (Crystallog.), one parallel to the lateral or
horizontal axis.

BASAL-NERVED
Ba"sal-nerved`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the nerves radiating from the base; -- said of leaves.

BASALT
Ba*salt", n. Etym: [N. basaltes (an African word), a dark and hard
species of marble found in Ethiopia: cf. F. basalte.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinic
feldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle-
green particles of olivine frequently disseminated.

Note: It is usually of a greenish black color, or of some dull brown
shade, or black. It constitutes immense beds in some regions, and
also occurs in veins or dikes cutting through other rocks. It has
often a prismatic structure as at the Giant's Causeway, in Ireland,
where the columns are as regular as if the work of art. It is a very
tough and heavy rock, and is one of the best materials for
macadamizing roads.

2. An imitation, in pottery, of natural basalt; a kind of black
porcelain.

BASALTIC
Ba*salt"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. basaltique.]

Defn: Pertaining to basalt; formed of, or containing, basalt; as
basaltic lava.

BASALTIFORM
Ba*salt"i*form, a. Etym: [Basalt + -form.]

Defn: In the form of basalt; columnar.

BASALTOID
Ba*salt"oid, a. Etym: [Basalt + -oid.]

Defn: Formed like basalt; basaltiform.

BASAN
Bas"an, n.

Defn: Same as Basil, a sheepskin.

BASANITE
Bas"a*nite, n. Etym: [L. basanites lapis, Gr. the touchstone: cf. F.
basanite.] (Min.)

Defn: Lydian stone, or black jasper, a variety of siliceous or flinty
slate, of a grayish or bluish black color. It is employed to test the
purity of gold, the amount of alloy being indicated by the color left
on the stone when rubbed by the metal.

BASBLEU
Bas`bleu", n. Etym: [F., fr. bas stocking + bleu blue.]

Defn: A bluestocking; a literary woman. [Somewhat derisive]

BASCINET
Bas"ci*net, n. Etym: [OE. bacinet, basnet, OF. bassinet, bacinet, F.
bassinet, dim. of OF. bacin, F. bassin, a helmet in the form of a
basin.]

Defn: A light helmet, at first open, but later made with a visor.
[Written also basinet, bassinet, basnet.]

BASCULE
Bas"cule, n. Etym: [F., a seesaw.]

Defn: In mechanics an apparatus on the principle of the seesaw, in
which one end rises as the other falls. Bascule bridge, a
counterpoise or balanced drawbridge, which is opened by sinking the
counterpoise and thus lifting the footway into the air.

BASE
Base, a. Etym: [OE. bass, F. bas, low, fr. LL. bassus thick, fat,
short, humble; cf. L. Bassus, a proper name, and W. bas shallow. Cf.
Bass a part in music.]

1. Of little, or less than the usual, height; of low growth; as, base
shrubs. [Archaic] Shak.

2. Low in place or position. [Obs.] Shak.

3. Of humble birth; or low degree; lowly; mean. [Archaic] "A pleasant
and base swain." Bacon.

4. Illegitimate by birth; bastard. [Archaic]
Why bastard wherefore base Shak.

5. Of little comparative value, as metal inferior to gold and silver,
the precious metals.

6. Alloyed with inferior metal; debased; as, base coin; base bullion.

7. Morally low. Hence: Low-minded; unworthy; without dignity of
sentiment; ignoble; mean; illiberal; menial; as, a base fellow; base
motives; base occupations. "A cruel act of a base and a cowardish
mind." Robynson (More's Utopia). "Base ingratitude." Milton.

8. Not classical or correct. "Base Latin." Fuller.

9. Deep or grave in sound; as, the base tone of a violin. [In this
sense, commonly written bass.]

10. (Law)

Defn: Not held by honorable service; as, a base estate, one held by
services not honorable; held by villenage. Such a tenure is called
base, or low, and the tenant, a base tenant. Base fee, formerly, an
estate held at the will of the lord; now, a qualified fee. See note
under Fee, n., 4.
 -- Base metal. See under Metal.

Syn.
 -- Dishonorable; worthless; ignoble; low-minded; infamous; sordid;
degraded.
 -- Base, Vile, Mean. These words, as expressing moral qualities, are
here arranged in the order of their strength, the strongest being
placed first. Base marks a high degree of moral turpitude; vile and
mean denote, in different degrees, the want of what is valuable or
worthy of esteem. What is base excites our abhorrence; what is vile
provokes our disgust or indignation; what is mean awakens contempt.
Base is opposed to high-minded; vile, to noble; mean, to liberal or
generous. Ingratitude is base; sycophancy is vile; undue compliances
are mean.

BASE
Base, n. Etym: [F. base, L. basis, fr. Gr. a stepping step, a base,
pedestal, fr. to go, step, akin to E. come. Cf. Basis, and see Come.]

1. The bottom of anything, considered as its support, or that on
which something rests for support; the foundation; as, the base of a
statue. "The base of mighty mountains." Prescott.

2. Fig.: The fundamental or essential part of a thing; the essential
principle; a groundwork.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The lower part of a wall, pier, or column, when treated as a
separate feature, usually in projection, or especially ornamented.
(b) The lower part of a complete architectural design, as of a
monument; also, the lower part of any elaborate piece of furniture or
decoration.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: That extremity of a leaf, fruit, etc., at which it is attached
to its support.

5. (Chem.)

Defn: The positive, or non-acid component of a salt; a substance
which, combined with an acid, neutralizes the latter and forms a
salt; -- applied also to the hydroxides of the positive elements or
radicals, and to certain organic bodies resembling them in their
property of forming salts with acids.

6. (Pharmacy)

Defn: The chief ingredient in a compound.

7. (Dyeing)

Defn: A substance used as a mordant. Ure.

8. (Fort.)

Defn: The exterior side of the polygon, or that imaginary line which
connects the salient angles of two adjacent bastions.

9. (Geom.)

Defn: The line or surface constituting that part of a figure on which
it is supposed to stand.

10. (Math.)

Defn: The number from which a mathematical table is constructed; as,
the base of a system of logarithms.

11. Etym: [See Base low.]

Defn: A low, or deep, sound. (Mus.) (a) The lowest part; the deepest
male voice. (b) One who sings, or the instrument which plays, base.
[Now commonly written bass.]
The trebles squeak for fear, the bases roar. Dryden.

12. (Mil.)

Defn: A place or tract of country, protected by fortifications, or by
natural advantages, from which the operations of an army proceed,
forward movements are made, supplies are furnished, etc.

13. (Mil.)

Defn: The smallest kind of cannon. [Obs.]

14. (Zoöl.)

Defn: That part of an organ by which it is attached to another more
central organ.

15. (Crystallog.)

Defn: The basal plane of a crystal.

16. (Geol.)

Defn: The ground mass of a rock, especially if not distinctly
crystalline.

17. (Her.)

Defn: The lower part of the field. See Escutcheon.

18. The housing of a horse. [Obs.]

19. pl.

Defn: A kind of skirt ( often of velvet or brocade, but sometimes of
mailed armor) which hung from the middle to about the knees, or
lower. [Obs.]

20. The lower part of a robe or petticoat. [Obs.]

21. An apron. [Obs.] "Bakers in their linen bases." Marston.

22. The point or line from which a start is made; a starting place or
a goal in various games.
To their appointed base they went. Dryden.

23. (Surv.)

Defn: A line in a survey which, being accurately determined in length
and position, serves as the origin from which to compute the
distances and positions of any points or objects connected with it by
a system of triangles. Lyman.

24. A rustic play; -- called also prisoner's base, prison base, or
bars. "To run the country base." Shak.

25. (Baseball)

Defn: Any one of the four bounds which mark the circuit of the
infield. Altern base. See under Altern.
 -- Attic base. (Arch.) See under Attic.
 -- Base course. (Arch.) (a) The first or lower course of a
foundation wall, made of large stones of a mass of concrete; --
called also foundation course. (b) The architectural member forming
the transition between the basement and the wall above.
 -- Base hit (Baseball), a hit, by which the batsman, without any
error on the part of his opponents, is able to reach the first base
without being put out.
 -- Base line. (a) A main line taken as a base, as in surveying or in
military operations. (b) A line traced round a cannon at the rear of
the vent.
 -- Base plate, the foundation plate of heavy machinery, as of the
steam engine; the bed plate.
 -- Base ring (Ordnance), a projecting band of metal around the
breech, connected with the body of the gun by a concave molding. H.
L. Scott.

BASE
Base, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Based (p. pr. & vb. n. Basing.] Etym: [From
Base, n.]

Defn: To put on a base or basis; to lay the foundation of; to found,
as an argument or conclusion; -- used with on or upon. Bacon.

BASE
Base, v. t. Etym: [See Base, a., and cf. Abase.]

1. To abase; to let, or cast, down; to lower. [Obs.]
If any . . . based his pike. Sir T. North.

2. To reduce the value of; to debase. [Obs.]
Metals which we can not base. Bacon.

BASEBALL
Base"ball", n.

1. A game of ball, so called from the bases or bounds ( four in
number) which designate the circuit which each player must endeavor
to make after striking the ball.

2. The ball used in this game.

BASEBOARD
Base"board, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A board, or other woodwork, carried round the walls of a room
and touching the floor, to form a base and protect the plastering; --
also called washboard (in England), mopboard, and scrubboard.

BASEBORN
Base"born`, a.

1. Born out of wedlock. Gay.

2. Born of low parentage.

3. Vile; mean. "Thy baseborn heart." Shak.

BASE-BURNER
Base"-burn`er, n.

Defn: A furnace or stove in which the fuel is contained in a hopper
or chamber, and is fed to the fire as the lower stratum is consumed.

BASE-COURT
Base"-court`, n. Etym: [F. basse-cour. See Base, a., and Court, n.]

1. The secondary, inferior, or rear courtyard of a large house; the
outer court of a castle.

2. (Law)

Defn: An inferior court of law, not of record.

BASED
Based, p. p. & a.

1. Having a base, or having as a base; supported; as, broad-based.

2. Etym: [See Base, n., 18-21.]

Defn: Wearing, or protected by, bases. [Obs.] "Based in lawny
velvet." E. Hall.

BASEDOW'S DISEASE
Ba"se*dow's dis*ease". Etym: [Named for Dr. Basedow, a German
physician.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease characterized by enlargement of the thyroid gland,
prominence of the eyeballs, and inordinate action of the heart; --
called also exophthalmic goiter. Flint.

BASELARD
Bas"e*lard, n. Etym: [OF. baselarde, LL. basillardus.]

Defn: A short sword or dagger, worn in the fifteenth century.
[Written also baslard.] Fairholt.

BASELESS
Base"less, a.

Defn: Without a base; having no foundation or support. "The baseless
fabric of this vision." Shak.

BASELY
Base"ly, adv.

1. In a base manner; with despicable meanness; dishonorably;
shamefully.

2. Illegitimately; in bastardy. [Archaic] Knolles.

BASEMENT
Base"ment, n. Etym: [F. soubassement. Of uncertain origin. Cf. Base,
a., Bastion.] (Arch.)

Defn: The outer wall of the ground story of a building, or of a part
of that story, when treated as a distinct substructure. ( See Base,
n., 3 (a).) Hence: The rooms of a ground floor, collectively.
Basement membrane (Anat.), a delicate membrane composed of a single
layer of flat cells, forming the substratum upon which, in many
organs, the epithelioid cells are disposed.

BASENESS
Base"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being base; degradation; vileness.
I once did hold it a baseness to write fair. Shak.

BASENET
Bas"e*net, n.

Defn: See Bascinet. [Obs.]

BASE VIOL
Base" vi`ol.

Defn: See Bass viol.

BASH
Bash, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. baschen, baissen. See Abash.]

Defn: To abash; to disconcert or be disconcerted or put out of
countenance. [Obs.]
His countenance was bold and bashed not. Spenser.

BASHAW
Ba*shaw", n. Etym: [See Pasha.]

1. A Turkish title of honor, now written pasha. See Pasha.

2. Fig.: A magnate or grandee.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A very large siluroid fish (Leptops olivaris) of the
Mississippi valley; -- also called goujon, mud cat, and yellow cat.

BASHFUL
Bash"ful, a. Etym: [See Bash.]

1. Abashed; daunted; dismayed. [Obs.]

2. Very modest, or modest excess; constitutionally disposed to shrink
from public notice; indicating extreme or excessive modesty; shy; as,
a bashful person, action, expression.

Syn.
 -- Diffident; retiring; reserved; shamefaced; sheepish.

BASHFULLY
Bash"ful*ly, adv.

Defn: In a bashful manner.

BASHFULNESS
Bash"ful*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being bashful.

Syn.
 -- Bashfulness, Modesty, Diffidence, Shyness. Modesty arises from a
low estimate of ourselves; bashfulness is an abashment or agitation
of the spirits at coming into contact with others; diffidence is
produced by an undue degree of self-distrust; shyness usually arises
from an excessive self-consciousness, and a painful impression that
every one is looking at us. Modesty of deportment is becoming at all;
bashfulness often gives rise to mistakes and blundering; diffidence
is society frequently makes a man a burden to himself; shyness
usually produces a reserve or distance which is often mistaken for
haughtiness.

BASHI-BAZOUK
Bash"i-ba*zouk", n. Etym: [Turkish, light-headed, a foolish fellow.]

Defn: A soldier belonging to the irregular troops of the Turkish
army.

BASHLESS
Bash"less, a.

Defn: Shameless; unblushing. [Obs.] Spenser.

BASHYLE
Bas"hyle, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Basyle.

BASI-
Ba"si-.

Defn: A combining form, especially in anatomical and botanical words,
to indicate the base or position at or near a base; forming a base;
as, basibranchials, the most ventral of the cartilages or bones of
the branchial arches; basicranial, situated at the base of the
cranium; basifacial, basitemporal, etc.

BASIC
Ba"sic, a.

1. (Chem.)
(a) Relating to a base; performing the office of a base in a salt.
(b) Having the base in excess, or the amount of the base atomically
greater than that of the acid, or exceeding in proportion that of the
related neutral salt.
(c) Apparently alkaline, as certain normal salts which exhibit
alkaline reactions with test paper.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Said of crystalline rocks which contain a relatively low
percentage of silica, as basalt. Basic salt (Chem.), a salt formed
from a base or hydroxide by the partial replacement of its hydrogen
by a negative or acid element or radical.

BASICERITE
Ba*sic"er*ite, n. Etym: [Basi- + Gr. horn, antenna.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The second joint of the antennæ of crustaceans.

BASICITY
Ba*sic"i*ty, n. (Chem.)
(a) The quality or state of being a base.
(b) The power of an acid to unite with one or more atoms or
equivalents of a base, as indicated by the number of replaceable
hydrogen atoms contained in the acid.

BASIC PROCESS
Ba"sic proc"ess. (Iron Metal.)

Defn: A Bessemer or open-hearth steel-making process in which a
lining that is basic, or not siliceous, is used, and additions of
basic material are made to the molten charge during treatment.
Opposed to acid process, above. Called also Thomas process.

BASIC SLAG
Basic slag.

Defn: A by-product from the manufacture of steel by the basic
process, used as a fertilizer. It is rich in lime and contains 14 to
20 per cent of phosphoric acid. Called also Thomas slag, phosphatic
slag, and odorless phosphate.

BASIC STEEL
Basic steel.

Defn: Steel produced by the basic process.

BASIDIOMYCETES
Ba*sid`i*o*my*ce"tes, n. pl. [NL., fr. NL. & E. basidium + Gr. , ,
fungus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large subdivision of fungi coördinate with the Ascomycetes,
characterized by having the spores borne on a basidium. It embraces
those fungi best known to the public, such as mushrooms, toadstools,
etc.

BASIDIOSPORE
Ba*sid"i*o*spore, n. Etym: [Basidium + spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: A spore borne by a basidium.
 -- Ba*sid`i*o*spor"ous (, a.

BASIDIUM
Ba*sid"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of Gr. base.] (Bot.)

Defn: A special oblong or pyriform cell, with slender branches, which
bears the spores in that division of fungi called Basidiomycetes, of
which the common mushroom is an example.

BASIFIER
Ba"si*fi`er, n. (Chem.)

Defn: That which converts into a salifiable base.

BASIFUGAL
Ba*sif"u*gal, a. Etym: [Base,n.+ L. fugere to flee.] (Bot.)

Defn: Tending or proceeding away from the base; as, a basifugal
growth.

BASIFY
Ba"si*fy, v. t. Etym: [Base + -fy.] (Chem.)

Defn: To convert into a salifiable base.

BASIGYNIUM
Ba`si*gyn"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. base + woman.] (Bot.)

Defn: The pedicel on which the ovary of certain flowers, as the
passion flower, is seated; a carpophore or thecaphore.

BASIHYAL
Ba`si*hy"al, a. Etym: [Basi- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Noting two small bones, forming the body of the inverted hyoid
arch.

BASIHYOID
Ba`si*hy"oid, n. Etym: [Basi- + hyoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: The central tongue bone.

BASIL
Bas"il, n. Etym: [Cf. F. basile and E. Bezel.]

Defn: The slope or angle to which the cutting edge of a tool, as a
plane, is ground. Grier.

BASIL
Bas"il, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Basiled (p. pr. & vb. n. Basiling.]

Defn: To grind or form the edge of to an angle. Moxon.

BASIL
Bas"il, n. Etym: [F. basilic, fr. L. badilicus royal, Gr. , fr.
king.] (Bot.)

Defn: The name given to several aromatic herbs of the Mint family,
but chiefly to the common or sweet basil (Ocymum basilicum), and the
bush basil, or lesser basil (O. minimum), the leaves of which are
used in cookery. The name is also given to several kinds of mountain
mint (Pycnanthemum). Basil thyme, a name given to the fragrant herbs
Calamintha Acinos and C. Nepeta.
 -- Wild basil, a plant (Calamintha clinopodium) of the Mint family.

BASIL
Bas"il, n. Etym: [Corrupt. from E. basan, F. basane, LL. basanium,
bazana, fr. Ar. bithana, prop., lining.]

Defn: The skin of a sheep tanned with bark.

BASILAR; BASILARY
Bas"i*lar, Bas"i*la*ry, a. Etym: [F. basilaire, fr. L. basis. See
Base, n.]

1. Relating to, or situated at, the base.

2. Lower; inferior; applied to impulses or springs of action. [R.]
"Basilar instincts." H. W. Beecher.

BASILIC
Ba*sil"ic, n. Etym: [F. basilique.]

Defn: Basilica.

BASILIC; BASILICAL
Ba*sil"ic, Ba*sil"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Basilica.]

1. Royal; kingly; also, basilican.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Pertaining to certain parts, anciently supposed to have a
specially important function in the animal economy, as the middle
vein of the right arm.

BASILICA
Ba*sil"i*ca, n.; pl. Basilicas; sometimes Basilic. Etym: [L.
basilica, Gr. ( sc. , or ) fr. royal, fr. .]

Defn: Originally, the place of a king; but afterward, an apartment
provided in the houses of persons of importance, where assemblies
were held for dispensing justice; and hence, any large hall used for
this purpose.

2. (Arch.)
(a) A building used by the Romans as a place of public meeting, with
court rooms, etc., attached.
(b) A church building of the earlier centuries of Christianity, the
plan of which was taken from the basilica of the Romans. The name is
still applied to some churches by way of honorary distinction.

BASILICA
Ba*sil"i*ca, n.

Defn: A digest of the laws of Justinian, translated from the original
Latin into Greek, by order of Basil I., in the ninth century. P. Cyc.

BASILICAN
Ba*sil"i*can, a.

Defn: Of, relating to, or resembling, a basilica; basilical.
There can be no doubt that the first churches in Constantinople were
in the basilican form. Milman.

BASILICOK
Ba*sil"i*cok, n. Etym: [OF. basilicoc.]

Defn: The basilisk. [Obs.] Chaucer

BASILICON
Ba*sil"i*con, n. Etym: [L. basilicon, Gr. , neut. of : cf. F.
basilicon. See Basilica.] (Med.)

Defn: An ointment composed of wax, pitch, resin, and olive oil, lard,
or other fatty substance.

BASILISK
Bas"i*lisk, n. Etym: [L. basiliscus, Gr. little king, kind of
serpent, dim. of king; -- so named from some prominences on the head
resembling a crown.]

1. A fabulous serpent, or dragon. The ancients alleged that its
hissing would drive away all other serpents, and that its breath, and
even its look, was fatal. See Cockatrice.
Make me not sighted like the basilisk. Shak.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A lizard of the genus Basiliscus, belonging to the family
Iguanidæ.

Note: This genus is remarkable for a membranous bag rising above the
occiput, which can be filled with air at pleasure; also for an
elevated crest along the back, that can be raised or depressed at
will.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A large piece of ordnance, so called from its supposed
resemblance to the serpent of that name, or from its size. [Obs.]

BASIN
Ba"sin, n. Etym: [OF. bacin, F. bassin, LL. bacchinus, fr. bacca a
water vessel, fr. L. bacca berry, in allusion to the round shape; or
perh. fr. Celtic. Cf. Bac.]

1. A hollow vessel or dish, to hold water for washing, and for
various other uses.

2. The quantity contained in a basin.

3. A hollow vessel, of various forms and materials, used in the arts
or manufactures, as that used by glass grinders for forming concave
glasses, by hatters for molding a hat into shape, etc.

4. A hollow place containing water, as a pond, a dock for ships, a
little bay.

5. (Physical Geog.)
(a) A circular or oval valley, or depression of the surface of the
ground, the lowest part of which is generally occupied by a lake, or
traversed by a river.
(b) The entire tract of country drained by a river, or sloping
towards a sea or lake.

6. (Geol.)

Defn: An isolated or circumscribed formation, particularly where the
strata dip inward, on all sides, toward a center; -- especially
applied to the coal formations, called coal basins or coal fields.

BASINED
Ba"sined, a.

Defn: Inclosed in a basin. "Basined rivers." Young.

BASINET
Bas"i*net, n.

Defn: Same as Bascinet.

BASIOCCIPITAL
Ba`si*oc*cip"i*tal, a. Etym: [Basi- + occipital.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the bone in the base of the cranium,
frequently forming a part of the occipital in the adult, but usually
distinct in the young.
 -- n.

Defn: The basioccipital bone.

BASION
Ba"si*on, n. Etym: [Gr. a base.] (Anat.)

Defn: The middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen of the
skull.

BASIPODITE
Ba*sip"o*dite, n. Etym: [Basi- + , , foot.] (Anat.)

Defn: The basal joint of the legs of Crustacea.

BASIPTERYGIUM
Ba*sip`te*ryg"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. a base + a fin.] (Anat.)

Defn: A bar of cartilage at the base of the embryonic fins of some
fishes. It develops into the metapterygium.
 -- Ba*sip`ter*yg"i*al (, a.

BASIPTERYGOID
Ba`sip*ter"y*goid, a. & n. Etym: [Basi- + pierygoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Applied to a protuberance of the base of the sphenoid bone.

BASIS
Ba"sis, n.; pl. Bases. Etym: [L. basis, Gr. . See Base, n.]

1. The foundation of anything; that on which a thing rests. Dryden.

2. The pedestal of a column, pillar, or statue. [Obs.]
If no basis bear my rising name. Pope.

3. The ground work the first or fundamental principle; that which
supports.
The basis of public credit is good faith. A. Hamilton.

4. The principal component part of a thing.

BASISOLUTE
Ba*sis"o*lute, a. Etym: [Basi- + solute, a.] (Bot.)

Defn: Prolonged at the base, as certain leaves.

BASISPHENOID; BASISPHENOIDAL
Ba`si*sphe"noid, Ba`si*sphe*noid"al, a. Etym: [Basi- + spheroid.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to that part of the base of the cranium
between the basioccipital and the presphenoid, which usually ossifies
separately in the embryo or in the young, and becomes a part of the
sphenoid in the adult.

BASISPHENOID
Ba`si*sphe"noid, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The basisphenoid bone.

BASK
Bask, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Basked (p. pr. & vb. n. Basking.] Etym: [
OScand. ba to bathe one's self, or perh. bakask to bake one's self,
sk being reflexive. See Bath, n., Bake, v. t.]

Defn: To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat.
Basks in the glare, and stems the tepid wave. Goldsmith.

BASK
Bask, v. t.

Defn: To warm by continued exposure to heat; to warm with genial
heat.
Basks at the fire his hairy strength. Milton.

BASKET
Bas"ket, n. Etym: [Of unknown origin. The modern Celtic words seem to
be from the English.]

1. A vessel made of osiers or other twigs, cane, rushes, splints, or
other flexible material, interwoven. "Rude baskets . . . woven of the
flexile willow." Dyer.

2. The contents of a basket; as much as a basket contains; as, a
basket of peaches.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital. [Improperly so
used.] Gwilt.

4. The two back seats facing one another on the outside of a
stagecoach. [Eng.] Goldsmith. Basket fish (Zoöl.), an ophiuran of the
genus Astrophyton, having the arms much branched. See Astrophyton.
 -- Basket hilt, a hilt with a covering wrought like basketwork to
protect the hand. Hudibras. Hence, Baskethilted, a.
 -- Basket work, work consisting of plaited osiers or twigs.
 -- Basket worm (Zoöl.), a lepidopterous insect of the genus
Thyridopteryx and allied genera, esp. T. ephemeræformis. The larva
makes and carries about a bag or basket-like case of silk and twigs,
which it afterwards hangs up to shelter the pupa and wingless adult
females.

BASKET
Bas"ket, v. t.

Defn: To put into a basket. [R.]

BASKET BALL
Bas"ket ball`.

Defn: A game, usually played indoors, in which two parties of players
contest with each other to toss a large inflated ball into opposite
goals resembling baskets.

BASKETFUL
Bas"ket*ful, n.; pl. Basketfuls (.

Defn: As much as a basket will contain.

BASKETRY
Bas"ket*ry, n.

Defn: The art of making baskets; also, baskets, taken collectively.

BASKING SHARK
Bask"ing shark`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the largest species of sharks (Cetorhinus maximus), so
called from its habit of basking in the sun; the liver shark, or bone
shark. It inhabits the northern seas of Europe and America, and grows
to a length of more than forty feet. It is a harmless species.

BASNET
Bas"net, n.

Defn: Same as Bascinet.

BASOMMATOPHORA
Ba*som`ma*toph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. base + eye + to
bear.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A group of Pulmonifera having the eyes at the base of the
tentacles, including the common pond snails.

BASON
Ba"son, n.

Defn: A basin. [Obs. or Special form]

BASQUE
Basque, a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Pertaining to Biscay, its people, or their language.

BASQUE
Basque, n. Etym: [F.]

1. One of a race, of unknown origin, inhabiting a region on the Bay
of Biscay in Spain and France.

2. The language spoken by the Basque people.

3. A part of a lady's dress, resembling a jacket with a short skirt;
-- probably so called because this fashion of dress came from the
Basques.

BASQUISH
Basqu"ish, a. Etym: [F. Basque Biscayan: cf. G. Baskisch.]

Defn: Pertaining to the country, people, or language of Biscay;
Basque [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

BAS-RELIEF
Bas`-re*lief", n. Etym: [F. bas-relief; bas law + relief raised work,
relever to raise: cf. It. bassorilievo.]

Defn: Low relief; sculpture, the figures of which project less than
half of their true proportions; -- called also bassrelief and basso-
rilievo. See Alto-rilievo.

BASS
Bass, n.

Defn: ; pl. Bass, and sometimes Basses. Etym: [A corruption of
barse.] (Zoöl.)

1. An edible, spiny-finned fish, esp. of the genera Roccus, Labrax,
and related genera. There are many species.

Note: The common European bass is Labrax lupus. American species are:
the striped bass (Roccus lineatus); white or silver bass of the
lakes. (R. chrysops); brass or yellow bass (R. interruptus).

2. The two American fresh-water species of black bass (genus
Micropterus). See Black bass.

3. Species of Serranus, the sea bass and rock bass. See Sea bass.

4. The southern, red, or channel bass (Sciæna ocellata). See Redfish.

Note: The name is also applied to many other fishes. See Calico bass,
under Calico.

BASS
Bass, n. Etym: [A corruption of bast.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The linden or lime tree, sometimes wrongly called whitewood;
also, its bark, which is used for making mats. See Bast.

2. (Pron.

Defn: A hassock or thick mat.

BASS
Bass, n. Etym: [F. basse, fr. bas low. See Base, a.]

1. A bass, or deep, sound or tone.

2. (Mus.)
(a) The lowest part in a musical composition.
(b) One who sings, or the instrument which plays, bass. [Written also
base.] Thorough bass. See Thorough bass.

BASS
Bass, a.

Defn: Deep or grave in tone. Bass clef (Mus.), the character placed
at the beginning of the staff containing the bass part of a musical
composition. [See Illust. under Clef.] -- Bass voice, a deepsounding
voice; a voice fitted for singing bass.

BASS
Bass, v. t.

Defn: To sound in a deep tone. [R.] Shak.

BASSA; BASSAW
Bas"sa, Bas*saw", n.

Defn: See Bashaw.

BASS DRUM
Bass` drum". (Mus.)

Defn: The largest of the different kinds of drums, having two heads,
and emitting a deep, grave sound. See Bass, a.

BASSET
Bas"set, n. Etym: [F. bassette, fr.It. bassetta. Cf. Basso.]

Defn: A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have been
invented at Venice.
Some dress, some dance, some play, not to forget Your piquet parties,
and your dear basset. Rowe.

BASSET
Bas"set, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. basset somewhat low, dim. of bas low.]
(Geol.)

Defn: Inclined upward; as, the basset edge of strata. Lyell.

BASSET
Bas"set, n. (Geol.)

Defn: The edge of a geological stratum at the surface of the ground;
the outcrop.

BASSET
Bas"set, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Basseted; p. pr. & vb. n. Basseting.]
(Geol.)

Defn: To inclined upward so as to appear at the surface; to crop out;
as, a vein of coal bassets.

BASSET HORN
Bas"set horn`. Etym: [See Basset, a.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument blown with a reed, and resembling a clarinet, but
of much greater compass, embracing nearly four octaves.

BASSET HOUND
Bas"set hound`. Etym: [F. basset.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small kind of hound with a long body and short legs, used as
an earth dog.

BASSETING
Bas"set*ing, n.

Defn: The upward direction of a vein in a mine; the emergence of a
stratum at the surface.

BASSETTO
Bas*set"to, n. Etym: [It., adj., somewhat low; n., counter tenor. See
Basso.] (Mus.)

Defn: A tenor or small bass viol.

BASS HORN
Bass" horn". (Mus.)

Defn: A modification of the bassoon, much deeper in tone.

BASSINET
Bas"si*net, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bassinet, dim. of bassin. See Basin, and
cf. Bascinet.]

1. A wicker basket, with a covering or hood over one end, in which
young children are placed as in a cradle.

2. See Bascinet. Lord Lytton.

BASSO
Bas"so, n. Etym: [It., fr. LL. bassus. See Base, a.] (Mus.)
(a) The bass or lowest part; as, to sing basso.
(b) One who sings the lowest part.
(c) The double bass, or contrabasso. Basso continuo (. Etym: [It.,
bass continued.] (Mus.) A bass part written out continuously, while
the other parts of the harmony are indicated by figures attached to
the bass; continued bass.

BASSOCK
Bas"sock, n.

Defn: A hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.

BASSOON
Bas*soon", n. Etym: [F. basson, fr. basse bass; or perh. fr. bas son
low sound. See Bass a part in music. ] (Mus.)

Defn: A wind instrument of the double reed kind, furnished with
holes, which are stopped by the fingers, and by keys, as in flutes.
It forms the natural bass to the oboe, clarinet, etc.

Note: Its compass comprehends three octaves. For convenience of
carriage it is divided into two parts; whence it is also called a
fagot.

BASSOONIST
Bas*soon"ist, n.

Defn: A performer on the bassoon. Busby.

BASSO-RILIEVO; BASSO-RELIEVO
Bas"so-ri*lie"vo, Bas"so-re*lie"vo, n. Etym: [It. basso-rilievo.]

Defn: Same as Bas-relief.

BASSORIN
Bas"so*rin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bassorine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A constituent part of a species of gum from Bassora, as also of
gum tragacanth and some gum resins. It is one of the amyloses. Ure.

BASS-RELIEF
Bass"-re*lief`, n.

Defn: Some as Bas-relief.

BASS VIOL
Bass" vi`ol. (Mus.)

Defn: A stringed instrument of the viol family, used for playing
bass. See 3d Bass, n., and Violoncello.

BASSWOOD
Bass"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The bass (Tilia) or its wood; especially, T. Americana. See
Bass, the lime tree.
All the bowls were made of basswood, White and polished very
smoothly. Longfellow.

BAST
Bast, n. Etym: [AS. bæst; akin to Icel., Sw., Dan., D., & G. bast, of
unknown origin. Cf. Bass the tree.]

1. The inner fibrous bark of various plants; esp. of the lime tree;
hence, matting, cordage, etc., made therefrom.

2. A thick mat or hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.

BASTA
Bas"ta, interj. Etym: [It.]

Defn: Enough; stop. Shak.

BASTARD
Bas"tard, n. Etym: [OF. bastard, bastart, F. b, prob. fr. OF. bast,
F. b, a packsaddle used as a bed by the muleteers (fr. LL. bastum) +
-ard. OF. fils de bast son of the packsaddle; as the muleteers were
accustomed to use their saddles for beds in the inns. See Cervantes,
"Don Quixote," chap. 16; and cf.G. bankert, fr. bank bench.]

1. A "natural" child; a child begotten and born out of wedlock; an
illegitimate child; one born of an illicit union.

Note: By the civil and canon laws, and by the laws of many of the
United States, a bastard becomes a legitimate child by the
intermarriage of the parents at any subsequent time. But by those of
England, and of some states of the United States, a child, to be
legitimate, must at least be born after the lawful marriage. Kent.
Blackstone.

2. (Sugar Refining)
(a) An inferior quality of soft brown sugar, obtained from the sirups
that
(b) A large size of mold, in which sugar is drained.

3. A sweet Spanish wine like muscadel in flavor.
Brown bastard is your only drink. Shak.

4. A writing paper of a particular size. See Paper.

BASTARD
Bas"tard, a.

1. Begotten and born out of lawful matrimony; illegitimate. See
Bastard, n., note.

2. Lacking in genuineness; spurious; false; adulterate; -- applied to
things which resemble those which are genuine, but are really not so.
That bastard self-love which is so vicious in itself, and productive
of so many vices. Barrow.

3. Of an unusual make or proportion; as, a bastard musket; a bastard
culverin. [Obs.]

4. (Print.)

Defn: Abbreviated, as the half title in a page preceding the full
title page of a book. Bastard ashlar (Arch.), stones for ashlar work,
roughly squared at the quarry.
 -- Bastard file, a file intermediate between the coarsest and the
second cut.
 -- Bastard type (Print.), type having the face of a larger or a
smaller size than the body; e.g., a nonpareil face on a brevier body.
 -- Bastard wing (Zoöl.), three to five quill feathers on a small
joint corresponding to the thumb in some mam malia; the alula.

BASTARD
Bas"tard, v. t.

Defn: To bastardize. [Obs.] Bacon.

BASTARDISM
Bas"tard*ism, n.

Defn: The state of being a bastard; bastardy.

BASTARDIZE
Bas"tard*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bastardized (p. pr. & vb. n.
Bastardizing.]

1. To make or prove to be a bastard; to stigmatize as a bastard; to
declare or decide legally to be illegitimate.
The law is so indulgent as not to bastardize the child, if born,
though not begotten, in lawful wedlock. Blackstone.

2. To beget out of wedlock. [R.] Shak.

BASTARDLY
Bas"tard*ly, a.

Defn: Bastardlike; baseborn; spuripous; corrupt. [Obs.] -- adv.

Defn: In the manner of a bastard; spuriously. [Obs.] Shak. Donne.

BASTARDY
Bas"tar*dy, n.

1. The state of being a bastard; illegitimacy.

2. The procreation of a bastard child. Wharton.

BASTE
Baste, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Basted; p. pr. & vb. n. Basting.] Etym:
[Cf. Icel. beysta to strike, powder; Sw. basa to beat with a rod:
perh. akin to E. beat.]

1. To beat with a stick; to cudgel.
One man was basted by the keeper for carrying some people over on his
back through the waters. Pepys.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: To sprinkle flour and salt and drip butter or fat on, as on
meat in roasting.

3. To mark with tar, as sheep. [Prov. Eng.]

BASTE
Baste, v. t. Etym: [OE. basten, OF. bastir, F. b, prob. fr. OHG.
bestan to sew, MHG. besten to bind, fr. OHG. bast bast. See Bast.]

Defn: To sew loosely, or with long stitches; -- usually, that the
work may be held in position until sewed more firmly. Shak.

BASTILE; BASTILLE
Bas*tile" Bas*tille", n. Etym: [F. bastille fortress, OF. bastir to
build, F. b.]

1. (Feud. Fort.)

Defn: A tower or an elevated work, used for the defense, or in the
siege, of a fortified place.
The high bastiles . . . which overtopped the walls. Holland.

2. "The Bastille", formerly a castle or fortress in Paris, used as a
prison, especially for political offenders; hence, a rhetorical name
for a prison.

BASTINADE
Bas`ti*nade", n.

Defn: See Bastinado, n.

BASTINADE
Bas`ti*nade", v. t.

Defn: To bastinado. [Archaic]

BASTINADO
Bas`ti*na"do, n.; pl. Bastinadoes. Etym: [Sp. bastonada (cf. F.
bastonnade), fr. baston (cf. F. b) a stick or staff. See Baston.]

1. A blow with a stick or cudgel.

2. A sound beating with a stick or cudgel. Specifically: A form of
punishment among the Turks, Chinese, and others, consisting in
beating an offender on the soles of his feet.

BASTINADO
Bas`ti*na"do, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bastinadoes (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bastinadoing.]

Defn: To beat with a stick or cudgel, especially on the soles of the
feet.

BASTION
Bas"tion, n. Etym: [F. bastion (cf. It. bastione), fr. LL. bastire to
build (cf. F. b, It. bastire), perh. from the idea of support for a
weight, and akin to Gr. to lift, carry, and to E. baston, baton.]
(Fort.)

Defn: A work projecting outward from the main inclosure of a
fortification, consisting of two faces and two flanks, and so
constructed that it is able to defend by a flanking fire the adjacent
curtain, or wall which extends from one bastion to another. Two
adjacent bastions are connected by the curtain, which joins the flank
of one with the adjacent flank of the other. The distance between the
flanks of a bastion is called the gorge. A lunette is a detached
bastion. See Ravelin.

BASTIONED
Bas"tioned, a.

Defn: Furnished with a bastion; having bastions.

BASTO
Bas"to, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: The ace of clubs in qua Pope.

BASTON
Bas"ton, n. Etym: [OF. baston, F. b, LL. basto. See Bastion, and cf.
Baton, and 3d Batten.]

1. A staff or cudgel. [Obs.] "To fight with blunt bastons." Holland.

2. (Her.)

Defn: See Baton.

3. An officer bearing a painted staff, who formerly was in attendance
upon the king's court to take into custody persons committed by the
court. Mozley & W.

BASUTOS
Ba*su"tos, n. pl.; sing. Basuto. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A warlike South African people of the Bantu stock, divided into
many tribes, subject to the English. They formerly practiced
cannibalism, but have now adopted many European customs.

BASYLE
Bas"yle, n. Etym: [Gr. base + wood. See -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A positive or nonacid constituent of compound, either
elementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element.

BASYLOUS
Bas"y*lous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or having the nature of, a basyle; electro-
positive; basic; -- opposed to chlorous. Graham.

BAT
Bat, n. Etym: [OE. batte, botte, AS. batt; perhaps fr. the Celtic;
cf. Ir. bat, bata, stick, staff; but cf. also F. batte a beater
(thing), wooden sword, battre to beat.]

1. A large stick; a club; specifically, a piece of wood with one end
thicker or broader than the other, used in playing baseball, cricket,
etc.

2. (Mining)

Defn: Shale or bituminous shale. Kirwan.

3. A sheet of cotton used for filling quilts or comfortables;
batting.

4. A part of a brick with one whole end. Bat bolt (Machinery), a bolt
barbed or jagged at its butt or tang to make it hold the more firmly.
Knight.

BAT
Bat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Batted (p. pr. & vb. n. Batting.]

Defn: To strike or hit with a bat or a pole; to cudgel; to beat.
Holland.

BAT
Bat, v. i.

Defn: To use a bat, as in a game of baseball.

BAT
Bat, n. Etym: [Corrupt. from OE. back, backe, balke; cf. Dan. aften-
bakke] (aften evening), Sw. natt-backa] (natt night), Icel. le (le
leather), Icel. blaka to flutter.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Cheiroptera, an order of flying mammals, in which
the wings are formed by a membrane stretched between the elongated
fingers, legs, and tail. The common bats are small and insectivorous.
See Cheiroptera and Vampire. Bat tick (Zoöl.), a wingless, dipterous
insect of the genus Nycteribia, parasitic on bats.

BATABLE
Bat"a*ble, a. Etym: [Abbrev. from debatable.]

Defn: Disputable. [Obs.]

Note: The border land between England and Scotland, being formerly a
subject of contention, was called batable or debatable ground.

BATAILLED
Bat"ailled, a.

Defn: Embattled. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BATARDEAU
Ba`tar*deau", n. Etym: [F.]

1. A cofferdam. Brande & C.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A wall built across the ditch of a fortification, with a sluice
gate to regulate the height of water in the ditch on both sides of
the wall.

BATATAS; BATATA
Ba*ta"tas, Ba*ta"ta, n.

Defn: An aboriginal American name for the sweet potato (Ipomæa
batatas).

BATAVIAN
Ba*ta"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to (a) the Batavi, an ancient Germanic tribe;
or to (b) as, a Batavian legion. Batavian Republic, the name given to
Holland by the French after its conquest in 1795.

BATAVIAN
Ba*ta"vi*an, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Batavia or Holland. [R.] Bancroft.

BATCH
Batch, n. Etym: [OE. bache, bacche, fr. AS. bacan to bake; cf. G.
gebäck and D. baksel. See Bake, v. t.]

1. The quantity of bread baked at one time.

2. A quantity of anything produced at one operation; a group or
collection of persons or things of the same kind; as, a batch of
letters; the next batch of business. "A new batch of Lords." Lady M.
W. Montagu.

BATE
Bate, n. Etym: [Prob. abbrev. from debate.]

Defn: Strife; contention. [Obs.] Shak.

BATE
Bate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bated; p. pr. & vb. n. Bating.] Etym: [From
abate.]

1. To lessen by retrenching, deducting, or reducing; to abate; to
beat down; to lower.
He must either bate the laborer's wages, or not employ or not pay
him. Locke.

2. To allow by way of abatement or deduction.
To whom he bates nothing or what he stood upon with the parliament.
South.

3. To leave out; to except. [Obs.]
Bate me the king, and, be he flesh and blood. He lies that says it.
Beau. & Fl.

4. To remove. [Obs.]
About autumn bate the earth from about the roots of olives, and lay
them bare. Holland.

5. To deprive of. [Obs.]
When baseness is exalted, do not bate The place its honor for the
person's sake. Herbert.

BATE
Bate, v. i.

1. To remit or retrench a part; -- with of.
Abate thy speed, and I will bate of mine. Dryden.

2. To waste away. [Obs.] Shak.

BATE
Bate, v. t.

Defn: To attack; to bait. [Obs.] Spenser.

BATE
Bate, imp.

Defn: of Bite. [Obs.] Spenser.

BATE
Bate, v. i. Etym: [F. battre des ailes to flutter. Cf. Bait to
flutter.]

Defn: To flutter as a hawk; to bait. [Obs.] Bacon.

BATE
Bate, n. (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: See 2d Bath.

BATE
Bate, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. beta maceration, soaking, G. beize, and E.
bite.]

Defn: An alkaline solution consisting of the dung of certain animals;
-- employed in the preparation of hides; grainer. Knight.

BATE
Bate, v. t.

Defn: To steep in bate, as hides, in the manufacture of leather.

BATEAU
Ba*teau", n.; pl. Bateaux. Etym: [F. bateau, LL. batellus, fr.
battus, batus, boa, which agrees with AS. bat boat: cf. W. bad boat.
See Boat, n.]

Defn: A boat; esp. a flat-bottomed, clumsy boat used on the Canadian
lakes and rivers. [Written also, but less properly, batteau.] Bateau
bridge, a floating bridge supported by bateaux.

BATED
Bat"ed, a.

Defn: Reduced; lowered; restrained; as, to speak with bated breath.
Macaulay.

BATEFUL
Bate"ful, a.

Defn: Exciting contention; contentious. [Obs.] "It did bateful
question frame. " Sidney.

BATELESS
Bate"less, a.

Defn: Not to be abated. [Obs.] Shak.

BATEMENT
Bate"ment, n. Etym: [For Abatement. See 2d Bate.]

Defn: Abatement; diminution. Moxon. Batement light (Arch.), a window
or one division of a window having vertical sides, but with the sill
not horizontal, as where it follows the rake of a staircase.

BATFISH
Bat"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name given to several species of fishes: (a) The Malthe
vespertilio of the Atlantic coast. (b) The flying gurnard of the
Atlantic (Cephalacanthus spinarella). (c) The California batfish or
sting ray (Myliobatis Californicus.)

BATFOWLER
Bat"fowl`er, n.

Defn: One who practices or finds sport in batfowling.

BATFOWLING
Bat"fowl`ing, n. Etym: [From Bat a stick.]

Defn: A mode of catching birds at night, by holding a torch or other
light, and beating the bush or perch where they roost. The birds,
flying to the light, are caught with nets or otherwise.

BATFUL
Bat"ful, a. Etym: [Icel. bati amelioration, batna to grow better;
akin to AS. bet better. Goth. ga-batnan to profit. Batten, v. i.,
Better.]

Defn: Rich; fertile. [Obs.] "Batful valleys." Drayton.

BATH
Bath, n.; pl. Baths. Etym: [AS. bæ; akin to OS. & Icel. ba, Sw.,
Dan., D., & G. bad, and perh. to G. bähen to foment.]

1. The act of exposing the body, or part of the body, for purposes of
cleanliness, comfort, health, etc., to water, vapor, hot air, or the
like; as, a cold or a hot bath; a medicated bath; a steam bath; a hip
bath.

2. Water or other liquid for bathing.

3. A receptacle or place where persons may immerse or wash their
bodies in water.

4. A building containing an apartment or a series of apartments
arranged for bathing.
Among the ancients, the public baths were of amazing extent and
magnificence. Gwilt.

5. (Chem.)

Defn: A medium, as heated sand, ashes, steam, hot air, through which
heat is applied to a body.

6. (Photog.)

Defn: A solution in which plates or prints are immersed; also, the
receptacle holding the solution.

Note: Bath is used adjectively or in combination, in an obvious sense
of or for baths or bathing; as, bathroom, bath tub, bath keeper.
Douche bath. See Douche.
 -- Order of the Bath, a high order of British knighthood, composed
of three classes, viz., knights grand cross, knights commanders, and
knights companions, abbreviated thus: G. C. B., K. C. B., K. B.
 -- Russian bath, a kind of vapor bath which consists in a prolonged
exposure of the body to the influence of the steam of water, followed
by washings and shampooings.
 -- Turkish bath, a kind of bath in which a profuse perspiration is
produced by hot air, after which the body is washed and shampooed.
 -- Bath house, a house used for the purpose of bathing; -- also a
small house, near a bathing place, where a bather undresses and
dresses.

BATH
Bath, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: A Hebrew measure containing the tenth of a homer, or five
gallons and three pints, as a measure for liquids; and two pecks and
five quarts, as a dry measure.

BATH
Bath, n.

Defn: A city in the west of England, resorted to for its hot springs,
which has given its name to various objects. Bath brick, a
preparation of calcareous earth, in the form of a brick, used for
cleaning knives, polished metal, etc.
 -- Bath chair, a kind of chair on wheels, as used by invalids at
Bath. "People walked out, or drove out, or were pushed out in their
Bath chairs." Dickens.
 -- Bath metal, an alloy consisting of four and a half ounces of zinc
and one pound of copper.
 -- Bath note, a folded writing paper, 8 1/2 by 14 inches.
 -- Bath stone, a species of limestone (oölite) found near Bath, used
for building.

BATHE
Bathe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bathed (p. pr. & vb. n. Bathing.] Etym:
[OE. ba, AS. ba, fr. bæ bath. See 1st Bath, and cf. Bay to bathe.]

1. To wash by immersion, as in a bath; to subject to a bath.
Chancing to bathe himself in the River Cydnus. South.

2. To lave; to wet. "The lake which bathed the foot of the Alban
mountain." T. Arnold.

3. To moisten or suffuse with a liquid.
And let us bathe our hands in Cæsar's blood. Shak.

4. To apply water or some liquid medicament to; as, to bathe the eye
with warm water or with sea water; to bathe one's forehead with
camphor.

5. To surround, or envelop, as water surrounds a person immersed.
"The rosy shadows bathe me. " Tennyson. "The bright sunshine bathing
all the world." Longfellow.

BATHE
Bathe, v. i.

1. To bathe one's self; to take a bath or baths. "They bathe in
summer." Waller.

2. To immerse or cover one's self, as in a bath. "To bathe in fiery
floods." Shak. "Bathe in the dimples of her cheek." Lloyd.

3. To bask in the sun. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BATHE
Bathe, n.

Defn: The immersion of the body in water; as to take one's usual
bathe. Edin. Rev.

BATHER
Bath"er, n.

Defn: One who bathes.

BATHETIC
Ba*thet"ic, a.

Defn: Having the character of bathos. [R.]

BATHING
Bath"ing, n.

Defn: Act of taking a bath or baths. Bathing machine, a small room on
wheels, to be driven into the water, for the convenience of bathers,
who undress and dress therein.

BATHMISM
Bath"mism, n.

Defn: See Vital force.

BATHOMETER
Ba*thom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. depth + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring depths, esp. one for taking
soundings without a sounding line.

BATHORSE
Bat"horse`, n. Etym: [F. b packsaddle (cheval de b packhorse) + E.
horse. See Bastard.]

Defn: A horse which carries an officer's baggage during a campaign.

BATHOS
Ba"thos, n. Etym: [Gr. depth, fr. deep.] (Rhet.)

Defn: A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing or
speech; anticlimax.

BATHYBIUS
Ba*thyb"i*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. deep + life] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name given by Prof. Huxley to a gelatinous substance found in
mud dredged from the Atlantic and preserved in alcohol. He supposed
that it was free living protoplasm, covering a large part of the
ocean bed. It is now known that the substance is of chemical, not of
organic, origin.

BATHYGRAPHIC
Bath`y*graph"ic, a. [Gr.  deep + graphic.]

Defn: Descriptive of the ocean depth; as, a bathygraphic chart.

BATHYMETRIC; BATHYMETRICAL
Bath`y*met"ric, Bath`y*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to bathymetry; relating to the measurement of
depths, especially of depths in the sea.

BATHYMETRY
Ba*thym"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. depth + -metry.]

Defn: The art or science of sounding, or measuring depths in the sea.

BATING
Bat"ing, prep. Etym: [Strictly p. pr. of Bat to abate.]

Defn: With the exception of; excepting.
We have little reason to think that they bring many ideas with them,
bating some faint ideas of hunger and thirst. Locke.

BATISTE
Ba*tiste", n. Etym: [F. batiste, from the name of the alleged first
maker, Baptiste of Cambrai. Littré.]

Defn: Originally, cambric or lawn of fine linen; now applied also to
cloth of similar texture made of cotton.

BATLET
Bat"let, n. Etym: [Bat stick + -let.]

Defn: A short bat for beating clothes in washing them; -- called also
batler, batling staff, batting staff. Shak.

BATMAN
Bat"man, n. Etym: [Turk. batman.]

Defn: A weight used in the East, varying according to the locality;
in Turkey, the greater batman is about 157 pounds, the lesser only a
fourth of this; at Aleppo and Smyrna, the batman is 17 pounds.
Simmonds.

BATMAN
Bat"man, n.; pl. Batmen. Etym: [F. b packsaddle + E. man. Cf.
Bathorse.]

Defn: A man who has charge of a bathorse and his load. Macaulay.

BATOIDEI
Ba*toi"de*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. a kind of ray + -oid.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The division of fishes which includes the rays and skates.

BATON
Bat"on, n. Etym: [F. b. See Baston.]

1. A staff or truncheon, used for various purposes; as, the baton of
a field marshal; the baton of a conductor in musical performances.
He held the baton of command. Prescott.

2. (Her.)

Defn: An ordinary with its ends cut off, borne sinister as a mark of
bastardy, and containing one fourth in breadth of the bend sinister;
-- called also bastard bar. See Bend sinister.

BATOON
Ba*toon", n.

Defn: See Baton, and Baston.

BAT PRINTING
Bat" print`ing. (Ceramics)

Defn: A mode of printing on glazed ware.

BATRACHIA
Ba*tra"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. belonging to a frog, fr.
frog.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The order of amphibians which includes the frogs and toads; the
Anura. Sometimes the word is used in a wider sense as equivalent to
Amphibia.

BATRACHIAN
Ba*tra"chi*an, a. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Batrachia.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Batrachia.

BATRACHOID
Bat"ra*choid, a. Etym: [Batrachia + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Froglike. Specifically: Of or pertaining to the Batrachidæ, a
family of marine fishes, including the toadfish. Some have poisonous
dorsal spines.

BATRACHOMYOMACHY
Bat`ra*cho*my*om"a*chy, n. Etym: [Gr. ; frog + mouse + battle.]

Defn: The battle between the frogs and mice; -- a Greek parody on the
Iliad, of uncertain authorship.

BATRACHOPHAGOUS
Bat`ra*choph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. frog + to eat.]

Defn: Feeding on frogs. Quart. Rev.

BATSMAN
Bats"man, n.; pl. Batsmen (.

Defn: The one who wields the bat in cricket, baseball, etc.

BAT'S-WING; BATWING
Bat's"-wing" or Bat"wing, a.

Defn: Shaped like a bat's wing; as, a bat's-wing burner.

BATTA
Bat"ta, n. Etym: [Prob. through Pg. for Canarese bhatta rice in the
husk.]

Defn: Extra pay; esp. an extra allowance to an English officer
serving in India. Whitworth.

BATTA
Bat"ta, n. Etym: [Hind. ba.]

Defn: Rate of exchange; also, the discount on uncurrent coins.
[India]

BATTABLE
Bat"ta*ble, a. Etym: [See Batful.]

Defn: Capable of culti [Obs.] Burton.

BATTAILANT
Bat"tail*ant, a. Etym: [F. bataillant, p. pr. See Battle, v. i. ]
[Obs.]

Defn: Prepared for battle; combatant; warlike. Spenser.
 -- n.

Defn: A combatant. Shelton.

BATTAILOUS
Bat"tail*ous, a. Etym: [OF. bataillos, fr. bataille. See Battle, n.]

Defn: Arrayed for battle; fit or eager for battle; warlike. [Obs.]
"In battailous aspect." Milton.

BATTALIA
Bat*tal"ia, n. Etym: [LL. battalia battle, a body of troops. See
Battle, n.]

1. Order of battle; disposition or arrangement of troops (brigades,
regiments, battalions, etc.), or of a naval force, for action.
A drawing up the armies in battalia. Jer. Taylor.

2. An army in battle array; also, the main battalia or body. [Obs.]
Shak.

BATTALION
Bat*tal"ion, n. Etym: [F. bataillon, fr. It. battaglione. See
Battalia.]

1. A body of troops; esp. a body of troops or an army in battle
array. "The whole battalion views." Milton.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A regiment, or two or more companies of a regiment, esp. when
assembled for drill or battle.

BATTALION
Bat*tal"ion, v. t.

Defn: To form into battalions. [R.]

BATTEL
Bat"tel, n. Etym: [Obs. form. of Battle.] (Old Eng. Law)

Defn: A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel,
under Wager.

BATTEL
Bat"tel, n. Etym: [Of uncertain etymology.]

Defn: Provisions ordered from the buttery; also, the charges for
them; -- only in the pl., except when used adjectively. [Univ. of
Oxford, Eng.]

BATTEL
Bat"tel, v. i.

Defn: To be supplied with provisions from the buttery. [Univ. of
Oxford, Eng.]

BATTEL
Bat"tel, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Batful, Batten, v. i.]

Defn: To make fertile. [Obs.] "To battel barren land." Ray.

BATTEL
Bat"tel, a.

Defn: Fertile; fruitful; productive. [Obs.]
A battel soil for grain, for pasture good. Fairfax.

BATTELER; BATTLER
Bat"tel*er, Bat"tler, n. Etym: [See 2d Battel, n.]

Defn: A student at Oxford who is supplied with provisions from the
buttery; formerly, one who paid for nothing but what he called for,
answering nearly to a sizar at Cambridge. Wright.

BATTEN
Bat"ten, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Battened (p. pr. & vb. n. Battening.]
Etym: [See Batful.]

1. To make fat by plenteous feeding; to fatten. "Battening our
flocks." Milton.

2. To fertilize or enrich, as land.

BATTEN
Bat"ten, v. i.

Defn: To grow fat; to grow fat in ease and luxury; to glut one's
self. Dryden.
The pampered monarch lay battening in ease. Garth.
Skeptics, with a taste for carrion, who batten on the hideous facts
in history, -- persecutions, inquisitions. Emerson.

BATTEN
Bat"ten, n . Etym: [F. b stick, staff. See Baton.]

Defn: A strip of sawed stuff, or a scantling; as, (a) pl. (Com. &
Arch.) Sawed timbers about 7 by 2 1/2 inches and not less than 6 feet
long. Brande & C. (b) (Naut.) A strip of wood used in fastening the
edges of a tarpaulin to the deck, also around masts to prevent
chafing. (c) A long, thin strip used to strengthen a part, to cover a
crack, etc. Batten door (Arch.), a door made of boards of the whole
length of the door, secured by battens nailed crosswise.

BATTEN
Bat"ten, v. t.

Defn: To furnish or fasten with battens. To batten down, to fasten
down with battens, as the tarpaulin over the hatches of a ship during
a storm.

BATTEN
Bat"ten, n. Etym: [F. battant. See Batter, v. t.]

Defn: The movable bar of a loom, which strikes home or closes the
threads of a woof.

BATTENING
Bat"ten*ing, n. (Arch.)

Defn: Furring done with small pieces nailed directly upon the wall.

BATTER
Bat"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Battered (; p. pr. & vb. n. Battering.]
Etym: [OE. bateren, OF. batre, F. battre, fr. LL. battere, for L.
batuere to strike, beat; of unknown origin. Cf. Abate, Bate to
abate.]

1. To beat with successive blows; to beat repeatedly and with
violence, so as to bruise, shatter, or demolish; as, to batter a wall
or rampart.

2. To wear or impair as if by beating or by hard usage. "Each
battered jade." Pope.

3. (Metallurgy)

Defn: To flatten (metal) by hammering, so as to compress it inwardly
and spread it outwardly.

BATTER
Bat"ter, n. Etym: [OE. batere, batire; cf. OF. bateure, bature, a
beating. See Batter, v. t.]

1. A semi-liquid mixture of several ingredients, as, flour, eggs,
milk, etc. , beaten together and used in cookery. King.

2. Paste of clay or loam. Holland.

3. (Printing)

Defn: A bruise on the face of a plate or of type in the form.

BATTER
Bat"ter, n.

Defn: A backward slope in the face of a wall or of a bank; receding
slope. Batter rule, an instrument consisting of a rule or frame, and
a plumb line, by which the batter or slope of a wall is regulated in
building.

BATTER
Bat"ter, v. i. (Arch.)

Defn: To slope gently backward.

BATTER
Bat"ter, n.

Defn: One who wields a bat; a batsman.

BATTERER
Bat"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, batters.

BATTERING-RAM
Bat"ter*ing-ram`, n.

Defn: 1. (Mil.) An engine used in ancient times to beat down the
walls of besieged places.

Note: It was a large beam, with a head of iron, which was sometimes
made to resemble the head of a ram. It was suspended by ropes t a
beam supported by posts, and so balanced as to swing backward and
forward, and was impelled by men against the wall. Grose.

2. A blacksmith's hammer, suspended, and worked horizontally.

BATTERING TRAIN
Bat"ter*ing train`. (Mil.)

Defn: A train of artillery for siege operations.

BATTERY
Bat"ter*y, n.; pl. Batteries. Etym: [F. batterie, fr. battre. See
Batter, v. t.]

1. The act of battering or beating.

2. (Law)

Defn: The unlawful beating of another. It includes every willful,
angry and violent, or negligent touching of another's person or
clothes, or anything attached to his person or held by him.

3. (Mil.)
(a) Any place where cannon or mortars are mounted, for attack or
defense.
(b) Two or more pieces of artillery in the field.
(c) A company or division of artillery, including the gunners, guns,
horses, and all equipments. In the United States, a battery of flying
artillery consists usually of six guns. Barbette battery. See
Barbette.
 -- Battery d'enfilade, or Enfilading battery, one that sweeps the
whole length of a line of troops or part of a work.
 -- Battery en écharpe, one that plays obliquely.
 -- Battery gun, a gun capable of firing a number, of shots
simultaneously or successively without stopping to load.
 -- Battery wagon, a wagon employed to transport the tools and
materials for repair of the carriages, etc., of the battery.
 -- In battery, projecting, as a gun, into an embrasure or over a
parapet in readiness for firing.
 -- Masked battery, a battery artificially concealed until required
to open upon the enemy.
 -- Out of battery, or From battery, withdrawn, as a gun, to a
position for loading.

4. (Elec.)
(a) A number of coated jars (Leyden jars) so connected that they may
be charged and discharged simultaneously.
(b) An apparatus for generating voltaic electricity.

Note: In the trough battery, copper and zinc plates, connected in
pairs, divide the trough into cells, which are filled with an acid or
oxidizing liquid; the effect is exhibited when wires connected with
the two end-plates are brought together. In Daniell's battery, the
metals are zinc and copper, the former in dilute sulphuric acid, or a
solution of sulphate of zinc, the latter in a saturated solution of
sulphate of copper. A modification of this is the common gravity
battery, so called from the automatic action of the two fluids, which
are separated by their specific gravities. In Grove's battery,
platinum is the metal used with zinc; two fluids are used, one of
them in a porous cell surrounded by the other. In Bunsen's or the
carbon battery, the carbon of gas coke is substituted for the
platinum of Grove's. In Leclanché's battery, the elements are zinc in
a solution of ammonium chloride, and gas carbon surrounded with
manganese dioxide in a porous cell. A secondary battery is a battery
which usually has the two plates of the same kind, generally of lead,
in dilute sulphuric acid, and which, when traversed by an electric
current, becomes charged, and is then capable of giving a current of
itself for a time, owing to chemical changes produced by the charging
current. A storage battery is a kind of secondary battery used for
accumulating and storing the energy of electrical charges or
currents, usually by means of chemical work done by them; an
accumulator.

5. A number of similar machines or devices in position; an apparatus
consisting of a set of similar parts; as, a battery of boilers, of
retorts, condensers, etc.

6. (Metallurgy)

Defn: A series of stamps operated by one motive power, for crushing
ores containing the precious metals. Knight.

7. The box in which the stamps for crushing ore play up and down.

8. (Baseball)

Defn: The pitcher and catcher together.

BATTING
Bat"ting, n.

1. The act of one who bats; the management of a bat in playing games
of ball. Mason.

2. Cotton in sheets, prepared for use in making quilts, etc.; as,
cotton batting.

BATTLE
Bat"tle, a.

Defn: Fertile. See Battel, a. [Obs.]

BATTLE
Bat"tle, n. Etym: [OE. bataille, bataile, F. bataille battle, OF.,
battle, battalion, fr. L. battalia, battualia, the fighting and
fencing exercises of soldiers and gladiators, fr. batuere to strike,
beat. Cf. Battalia, 1st Battel, and see Batter, v. t. ]

1. A general action, fight, or encounter, in which all the divisions
of an army are or may be engaged; an engagement; a combat.

2. A struggle; a contest; as, the battle of life.
The whole intellectual battle that had at its center the best poem of
the best poet of that day. H. Morley.

3. A division of an army; a battalion. [Obs.]
The king divided his army into three battles. Bacon.
The cavalry, by way of distinction, was called the battle, and on it
alone depended the fate of every action. Robertson.

4. The main body, as distinct from the van and rear; battalia. [Obs.]
Hayward.

Note: Battle is used adjectively or as the first part of a self-
explaining compound; as, battle brand, a "brand" or sword used in
battle; battle cry; battlefield; battle ground; battlearray; battle
song. Battle piece, a painting, or a musical composition,
representing a battle.
 -- Battle royal. (a) A fight between several gamecocks, where the
one that stands longest is the victor. Grose. (b) A contest with
fists or cudgels in which more than two are engaged; a mêlée.
Thackeray.
 -- Drawn battle, one in which neither party gains the victory.
 -- To give battle, to attack an enemy.
 -- To join battle, to meet the attack; to engage in battle.
 -- Pitched battle, one in which the armies are previously drawn up
in form, with a regular disposition of the forces.
 -- Wager of battle. See under Wager, n.

Syn.
 -- Conflict; encounter; contest; action. Battle, Combat, Fight,
Engagement. These words agree in denoting a close encounter between
contending parties. Fight is a word of less dignity than the others.
Except in poetry, it is more naturally applied to the encounter of a
few individuals, and more commonly an accidental one; as, a street
fight. A combat is a close encounter, whether between few or many,
and is usually premeditated. A battle is commonly more general and
prolonged. An engagement supposes large numbers on each side, engaged
or intermingled in the conflict.

BATTLE
Bat"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Battled (p. pr. & vb. n. Battling.]
Etym: [F. batailler, fr. bataille. See Battle, n.]

Defn: To join in battle; to contend in fight; as, to battle over
theories.
To meet in arms, and battle in the plain. Prior.

BATTLE
Bat"tle, v. t.

Defn: To assail in battle; to fight.

BATTLE-AX; BATTLE-AXE
Bat"tle-ax` Bat"tle-axe`, n. (Mil.)

Defn: A kind of broadax formerly used as an offensive weapon.

BATTLED
Bat"tled, p. p.

Defn: Embattled. [Poetic] Tennyson.

BATTLEDOOR
Bat"tle*door`, n. Etym: [OE. batyldour. A corrupted form of uncertain
origin; cf. Sp. batallador a great combatant, he who has fought many
battles, Pg. batalhador, Pr. batalhador, warrior, soldier, fr. L.
battalia; or cf. Pr. batedor batlet, fr. batre to beat, fr. L.
batuere. See Battle, n.]

1. An instrument, with a handle and a flat part covered with
parchment or crossed with catgut, used to strike a shuttlecock in
play; also, the play of battledoor and shuttlecock.

2. Etym: [OE. battleder.]

Defn: A child's hornbook. [Obs.] Halliwell.

BATTLEMENT
Bat"tle*ment, n. Etym: [OE. batelment; cf. OF. bataillement combat,
fr. batailler, also OF. bastillier, bateillier, to fortify. Cf.
Battle, n., Bastile, Bastion.] (Arch.)
(a) One of the solid upright parts of a parapet in ancient
fortifications.
(b) pl. The whole parapet, consisting of alternate solids and open
spaces. At first purely a military feature, afterwards copied on a
smaller scale with decorative features, as for churches.

BATTLEMENTED
Bat"tle*ment*ed, a.

Defn: Having battlements.
A battlemented portal. Sir W. Scott.

BATTLE RANGE
Bat"tle range`. (Mil.)

Defn: The range within which the fire of small arms is very
destructive. With the magazine rifle, this is six hundred yards.

BATTLE SHIP
Battle ship. (Nav.)

Defn: An armor-plated man-of-war built of steel and heavily armed,
generally having from ten thousand to fifteen thousand tons
displacement, and intended to be fit to meet the heaviest ships in
line of battle.

BATTOLOGIST
Bat*tol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who battologizes.

BATTOLOGIZE
Bat*tol"o*gize, v. t.

Defn: To keep repeating needlessly; to iterate. Sir T. Herbert.

BATTOLOGY
Bat*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [F. battologie, fr. Gr. ; a stammerer +
speech.]

Defn: A needless repetition of words in speaking or writing. Milton.

BATTON
Bat"ton, n.

Defn: See Batten, and Baton.

BATTUE
Bat"tue`, n. Etym: [F. battue, fr. battre to beat. See Batter, v. t.,
and cf. Battuta.] (Hunting)
(a) The act of beating the woods, bushes, etc., for game.
(b) The game itself.
(c) The wanton slaughter of game. Howitt.

BATTURE
Bat`ture", n. Etym: [F., fr. battre to beat. ]

Defn: An elevated river bed or sea bed.

BATTUTA
Bat*tu"ta, n. Etym: [It. battuta, fr. battere to beat.] (Mus.)

Defn: The measuring of time by beating.

BATTY
Bat"ty, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a bat. "Batty wings." Shak.

BATULE
Bat"ule, n.

Defn: A springboard in a circus or gymnasium; -- called also batule
board.

BATZ
Batz, n.; pl. Batzen. Etym: [Ger. batz, batze, batzen, a coin bearing
the image of a bear, Ger. bätz, betz, bear.]

Defn: A small copper coin, with a mixture of silver, formerly current
in some parts of Germany and Switzerland. It was worth about four
cents.

BAUBEE
Bau*bee", n.

Defn: Same as Bawbee.

BAUBLE
Bau"ble, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. baubel a child's plaything, F. babiole,
It. babbola, LL. baubellum gem, jewel, L. babulus,a baburrus,
foolish.]

1. A trifling piece of finery; a gewgaw; that which is gay and showy
without real value; a cheap, showy plaything.
The ineffective bauble of an Indian pagod. Sheridan.

2. The fool's club. [Obs.] "A fool's bauble was a short stick with a
head ornamented with an ass's ears fantastically carved upon it."
Nares.

BAUBLING
Bau"bling

Defn: , a. See Bawbling. [Obs.]

BAUDEKIN
Bau"de*kin, n. Etym: [OE. bawdekin rich silk stuff, OF. baudequin.
See Baldachin.]

Defn: The richest kind of stuff used in garments in the Middle Ages,
the web being gold, and the woof silk, with embroidery : -- made
originally at Bagdad. [Spelt also baudkin, baudkyn, bawdekin, and
baldakin.] Nares.

BAUDRICK
Bau"drick, n.

Defn: A belt. See Baldric.

BAUK; BAULK
Bauk, Baulk, n. & v.

Defn: See Balk.

BAUME
Bau`mé", a.

Defn: Designating or conforming to either of the scales used by the
French chemist Antoine Baumé in the graduation of his hydrometers; of
or relating to Baumé's scales or hydrometers. There are two Baumé
hydrometers. One, which is used with liquids heavier than water,
sinks to 0º in pure water, and to 15º in a 15 per cent salt solution;
the other, for liquids lighter than water, sinks to 0º in a 10 per
cent salt solution and to 10º in pure water. In both cases the
graduation, based on the distance between these fundamental points,
is continued along the stem as far as desired. Since all the degrees
on a Baumé scale are thus equal in length, while those on a specific-
gravity scale grow smaller as the density increases, there is no
simple relation between degrees Bé. and Sp. gr. However, readings on
Baumés scale may be approximately reduced to specific gravities by
the following formulæ (x in each case being the reading on Baumé's
scale) : (a) for liquids heavier than water, sp. gr. = 144 ÷ (144 -
x);
 (b) for liquids lighter than water, sp. gr. = 144 ÷ (134 + x).

BAUNSCHEIDTISM
Baun"scheidt*ism, n. Etym: [From the introducer, a German named
Baunscheidt.] (Med.)

Defn: A form of acupuncture, followed by the rubbing of the part with
a stimulating fluid.

BAUXITE; BEAUXITE
Baux"ite, Beaux"ite,n. Etym: [F., fr. Baux or Beaux, near Arles.]
(Min.)

Defn: A ferruginous hydrate of alumina. It is largely used in the
preparation of aluminium and alumina, and for the lining of furnaces
which are exposed to intense heat.

BAVARDAGE
Ba`var`dage", n. [F.]

Defn: Much talking; prattle; chatter.  Byron.

BAVARIAN
Ba*va"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Bavaria.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Bavaria. Bavarian cream. See under
Cream.

BAVAROY
Bav"a*roy, n. Etym: [F. Bavarois Bavarian.]

Defn: A kind of cloak or surtout. [Obs.] Johnson.
Let the looped bavaroy the fop embrace. Gay.

BAVIAN
Ba"vi*an, n. Etym: [See Baboon.]

Defn: A baboon.

BAVIN
Bav"in, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. & Ir. baban tuft, tassel.]

1. A fagot of brushwood, or other light combustible matter, for
kindling fires; refuse of brushwood. [Obs. or Dial. Eng.]

2. Impure limestone. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

BAWBEE
Baw*bee", n. Etym: [Perh. corrupt. fr. halfpenny.]

Defn: A halfpenny. [Spelt also baubee.] [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

BAWBLE
Baw"ble, n.

Defn: A trinket. See Bauble.

BAWBLING
Baw"bling, a.

Defn: Insignificant; contemptible. [Obs.]

BAWCOCK
Baw"cock, n. Etym: [From F. beau fine + E. cock (the bird); or more
prob. fr. OF. baud bold, gay + E. cock. Cf. Bawd.]

Defn: A fine fellow; -- a term of endearment. [Obs.] "How now, my
bawcock " Shak.

BAWD
Bawd, n. Etym: [OE. baude, OF. balt, baut, baude, bold, merry, perh.
fr. OHG. bald bold; or fr. Celtic, cf. W. baw dirt. Cf. Bold,
Bawdry.]

Defn: A person who keeps a house of prostitution, or procures women
for a lewd purpose; a procurer or procuress; a lewd person; --
usually applied to a woman.

BAWD
Bawd, v. i.

Defn: To procure women for lewd purposes.

BAWDILY
Bawd"i*ly, adv.

Defn: Obscenely; lewdly.

BAWDINESS
Bawd"i*ness, n.

Defn: Obscenity; lewdness.

BAWDRICK
Bawd"rick, n.

Defn: A belt. See Baldric.

BAWDRY
Bawd"ry, n. Etym: [OE. baudery, OF. bauderie, balderie, boldness,
joy. See Bawd.]

1. The practice of procuring women for the gratification of lust.

2. Illicit intercourse; fornication. Shak.

3. Obscenity; filthy, unchaste language. "The pert style of the pit
bawdry." Steele.

BAWDY
Bawd"y, a.

1. Dirty; foul; -- said of clothes. [Obs.]
It [a garment] is al bawdy and to-tore also. Chaucer.

2. Obscene; filthy; unchaste. "A bawdy story." Burke.

BAWDYHOUSE
Baw"dy*house`, n.

Defn: A house of prostitution; a house of ill fame; a brothel.

BAWHORSE
Baw"horse`, n.

Defn: Same as Bathorse.

BAWL
Bawl, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bawled (p. pr. & vb. n. Bawling.] Etym:
[Icel. baula to low, bellow, as a cow; akin to Sw. böla; cf. AS
bellan, G. bellen to bark, E. bellow, bull.]

1. To cry out with a loud, full sound; to cry with vehemence, as in
calling or exultation; to shout; to vociferate.

2. To cry loudly, as a child from pain or vexation.

BAWL
Bawl, v. t.

Defn: To proclaim with a loud voice, or by outcry, as a hawker or
town-crier does. Swift.

BAWL
Bawl, n.

Defn: A loud, prolonged cry; an outcry.

BAWLER
Bawl"er, n.

Defn: One who bawls.

BAWN
Bawn, n. Etym: [Ir. & Gael. babhun inclosure, bulwark.]

1. An inclosure with mud or stone walls, for keeping cattle; a
fortified inclosure. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. A large house. [Obs.] Swift.

BAWREL
Baw"rel, n. Etym: [Cf. It. barletta a tree falcon, or hobby.]

Defn: A kind of hawk. [Obs.] Halliwell.

BAWSIN; BAWSON
Baw"sin, Baw"son, n. Etym: [OE. bawson, baucyne, badger (named from
its color), OF. bauzan, baucant, bauchant, spotted with white, pied;
cf. It. balzano, F. balzan, a white-footed horse, It. balza border,
trimming, fr. L. balteus belt, border, edge. Cf. Belt.]

1. A badger. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

2. A large, unwieldy person. [Obs.] Nares.

BAXTER
Bax"ter, n. Etym: [OE. bakestre, bakistre, AS. bæcestre, prop. fem.
of bæcere baker. See Baker.]

Defn: A baker; originally, a female baker. [Old Eng. & Scotch]

BAY
Bay, a. Etym: [F. bai, fr. L. badius brown, chestnutcolored; -- used
only of horses.]

Defn: Reddish brown; of the color of a chestnut; -- applied to the
color of horses. Bay cat (Zoöl.), a wild cat of Africa and the East
Indies (Felis aurata).
 -- Bay lynx (Zoöl.), the common American lynx (Felis, or Lynx,
rufa).

BAY
Bay, n. Etym: [F. baie, fr. LL. baia. Of uncertain origin: cf. Ir. &
Gael. badh or bagh bay harbor, creek; Bisc. baia, baiya, harbor, and
F. bayer to gape, open the mouth.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: An inlet of the sea, usually smaller than a gulf, but of the
same general character.

Note: The name is not used with much precision, and is often applied
to large tracts of water, around which the land forms a curve; as,
Hudson's Bay. The name is not restricted to tracts of water with a
narrow entrance, but is used foe any recess or inlet between capes or
headlands; as, the Bay of Biscay.

2. A small body of water set off from the main body; as a compartment
containing water for a wheel; the portion of a canal just outside of
the gates of a lock, etc.

3. A recess or indentation shaped like a bay.

4. A principal compartment of the walls, roof, or other part of a
building, or of the whole building, as marked off by the buttresses,
vaulting, mullions of a window, etc.; one of the main divisions of
any structure, as the part of a bridge between two piers.

5. A compartment in a barn, for depositing hay, or grain in the
stalks.

6. A kind of mahogany obtained from Campeachy Bay. Sick bay, in
vessels of war, that part of a deck appropriated to the use of the
sick. Totten.

BAY
Bay, n. Etym: [F. baie a berry, the fruit of the laurel and other
trees, fr. L. baca, bacca, a small round fruit, a berry, akin to
Lith. bapka laurel berry.]

1. A berry, particularly of the laurel. [Obs.]

2. The laurel tree (Laurus nobilis). Hence, in the plural, an
honorary garland or crown bestowed as a prize for victory or
excellence, anciently made or consisting of branches of the laurel.
The patriot's honors and the poet's bays. Trumbull.

3. A tract covered with bay trees. [Local, U. S.] Bay leaf, the leaf
of the bay tree (Laurus nobilis). It has a fragrant odor and an
aromatic taste.

BAY
Bay, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bayed (p. pr. & vb. n. Baying.] Etym: [ OE.
bayen, abayen, OF. abaier, F. aboyer, to bark; of uncertain origin.]

Defn: To bark, as a dog with a deep voice does, at his game.
The hounds at nearer distance hoarsely bayed. Dryden.

BAY
Bay, v. t.

Defn: To bark at; hence, to follow with barking; to bring or drive to
bay; as, to bay the bear. Shak.

BAY
Bay, n. Etym: [See Bay, v. i.]

1. Deep-toned, prolonged barking. "The bay of curs." Cowper.

2. Etym: [OE. bay, abay, OF. abai, F. aboi barking, pl. abois, prop.
the extremity to which the stag is reduced when surrounded by the
dogs, barking (aboyant); aux abois at bay.]

Defn: A state of being obliged to face an antagonist or a difficulty,
when escape has become impossible.
Embolden'd by despair, he stood at bay. Dryden.
The most terrible evils are just kept at bay by incessant efforts. I.
Taylor

BAY
Bay, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OE. bæwen to bathe, and G. bähen to foment.]

Defn: To bathe. [Obs.] Spenser.

BAY
Bay, n.

Defn: A bank or dam to keep back water.

BAY
Bay, v. t.

Defn: To dam, as water; -- with up or back.

BAYA
Ba"ya, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The East Indian weaver bird (Ploceus Philippinus).

BAYAD; BAYATTE
Ba*yad", Ba*yatte", n. Etym: [Ar. bayad.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large, edible, siluroid fish of the Nile, of two species
(Bagrina bayad and B. docmac).

BAYADERE
Ba`ya*dere", n. Etym: [F., from Pg. bailadeira a female dancer,
bailar to dance.]

Defn: A female dancer in the East Indies. [Written also bajadere.]

BAYAMO
Ba*ya"mo, n. (Meteor.)

Defn: A violent thunder squall occurring on the south coast of Cuba,
esp. near Bayamo. The gusts, called bayamo winds, are modified foehn
winds.

BAY-ANTLER
Bay"-ant`ler, n. Etym: [See Bez-Antler.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The second tine of a stag's horn. See under Antler.

BAYARD
Bay"ard, n.

1. Etym: [OF. bayard, baiart, bay horse; bai bay + -ard. See Bay, a.,
and -ard.]

Defn: Properly, a bay horse, but often any horse. Commonly in the
phrase blind bayard, an old blind horse.
Blind bayard moves the mill. Philips.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. bayeur, fr. bayer to gape.]

Defn: A stupid, clownish fellow. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BAYARDLY
Bay"ard*ly, a.

Defn: Blind; stupid. [Obs.] "A formal and bayardly round of duties."
Goodman.

BAYBERRY
Bay"ber*ry, n. (Bot.)
(a) The fruit of the bay tree or Laurus nobilis.
(b) A tree of the West Indies related to the myrtle (Pimenta acris).
(c) The fruit of Myrica cerifera (wax myrtle); the shrub itself; --
called also candleberry tree. Bayberry tallow, a fragrant green wax
obtained from the bayberry or wax myrtle; -- called also myrtle wax.

BAYBOLT
Bay"bolt`, n.

Defn: A bolt with a barbed shank.

BAYED
Bayed, a.

Defn: Having a bay or bays. "The large bayed barn." Drayton.

BAYEUX TAPESTRY
Ba`yeux" tap"es*try.

Defn: A piece of linen about 1 ft. 8 in. wide by 213 ft. long,
covered with embroidery representing the incidents of William the
Conqueror's expedition to England, preserved in the town museum of
Bayeux in Normandy. It is probably of the 11th century, and is
attributed by tradition to Matilda, the Conqueror's wife.

BAY ICE
Bay" ice`.

Defn: See under Ice.

BAY LEAF
Bay" leaf`.

Defn: See under 3d Bay.

BAYMAN
Bay"man, n. (Nav.)

Defn: In the United States navy, a sick-bay nurse; -- now officially
designated as hospital apprentice.

BAYONET
Bay"o*net, n. Etym: [F. bayonnette, baïonnette; -- so called, it is
said, because the first bayonets were made at Bayonne.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A pointed instrument of the dagger kind fitted on the muzzle of
a musket or rifle, so as to give the soldier increased means of
offense and defense.

Note: Originally, the bayonet was made with a handle, which required
to be fitted into the bore of the musket after the soldier had fired.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A pin which plays in and out of holes made to receive it, and
which thus serves to engage or disengage parts of the machinery.
Bayonet clutch. See Clutch.
 -- Bayonet joint, a form of coupling similar to that by which a
bayonet is fixed on the barrel of a musket. Knight.

BAYONET
Bay"o*net, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bayoneted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bayoneting.]

1. To stab with a bayonet.

2. To compel or drive by the bayonet.
To bayonet us into submission. Burke.

BAYOU
Bay"ou, n.; pl. Bayous (.Etym: [North Am. Indian bayuk, in F.
spelling bayouc, bayouque.]

Defn: An inlet from the Gulf of Mexico, from a lake, or from a large
river, sometimes sluggish, sometimes without perceptible movement
except from tide and wind. [Southern U. S.]
A dark slender thread of a bayou moves loiteringly northeastward into
a swamp of huge cypresses. G. W. Cable.

BAYOU STATE
Bay"ou State`.

Defn: Mississippi; -- a nickname, from its numerous bayous.

BAY RUM
Bay" rum".

Defn: A fragrant liquid, used for cosmetic and medicinal purposes.

Note: The original bay rum, from the West Indies, is prepared, it is
believed, by distillation from the leaves of the bayberry (Myrcia
acris). The bay rum of the Pharmacopoeia (spirit of myrcia) is
prepared from oil of myrcia (bayberry), oil of orange peel, oil of
pimento, alcohol, and water.

BAYS; BAYZE
Bays, Bayze, n.

Defn: See Baize. [Obs.]

BAY SALT
Bay" salt`.

Defn: Salt which has been obtained from sea water, by evaporation in
shallow pits or basins, by the heat of the sun; the large crystalline
salt of commerce. Bacon. Ure.

BAY STATE
Bay State.

Defn: Massachusetts, which had been called the Colony of
Massachusetts Bay; -- a nickname.

BAY TREE
Bay" tree`.

Defn: A species of laurel. (Laurus nobilis).

BAY WINDOW
Bay" win"dow. (Arch.)

Defn: A window forming a bay or recess in a room, and projecting
outward from the wall, either in a rectangular, polygonal, or
semicircular form; -- often corruptly called a bow window.

BAY YARN
Bay" yarn`.

Defn: Woolen yarn. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

BAZAAR; BAZAR
Ba*zaar" Ba*zar", n. Etym: [Per. bazar market.]

1. In the East, an exchange, marketplace, or assemblage of shops
where goods are exposed for sale.

2. A spacious hall or suite of rooms for the sale of goods, as at a
fair.

3. A fair for the sale of fancy wares, toys, etc., commonly for a
charitable objects. Macaulay.

BDELLIUM
Bdel"lium, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. ; cf. Heb. b'dolakh bdellium (in
sense 1).]

1. An unidentified substance mentioned in the Bible (Gen. ii. 12, and
Num. xi. 7), variously taken to be a gum, a precious stone, or
pearls, or perhaps a kind of amber found in Arabia.

2. A gum resin of reddish brown color, brought from India, Persia,
and Africa.

Note: Indian bdellium or false myrrh is an exudation from
Balsamodendron Roxb. Other kinds are known as African, Sicilian, etc.

BDELLOIDEA
Bdel*loi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. leech + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The order of Annulata which includes the leeches. See
Hirudinea.

BDELLOMETER
Bdel*lom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. leech + -meter.] (Med.)

Defn: A cupping glass to which are attached a scarificator and an
exhausting syringe. Dunglison.

BDELLOMORPHA
Bdel`lo*mor"pha,n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. leech + form.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An order of Nemertina, including the large leechlike worms
(Malacobdella) often parasitic in clams.

BE
Be, v. i. [imp. Was; p. p. Been; p. pr. & vb. n. Being.] Etym: [OE.
been, beon, AS. beón to be, beóm I am; akin to OHG. bim, pim, G. bin,
I am, Gael. & Ir. bu was, W. bod to be, Lith. bu-ti, O. Slav. by-ti,
to be, L. fu-i I have been, fu-turus about to be, fo-re to be about
to be, and perh to fieri to become, Gr. to be born, to be, Skr. bh to
be. This verb is defective, and the parts lacking are supplied by
verbs from other roots, is, was, which have no radical connection
with be. The various forms, am, are, is, was, were, etc., are
considered grammatically as parts of the verb "to be", which, with
its conjugational forms, is often called the substantive verb.
Future, Physic.]

1. To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to have ex
To be contents his natural desire. Pope.
To be, or not to be: that is the question. Shak.

2. To exist in a certain manner or relation, -- whether as a reality
or as a product of thought; to exist as the subject of a certain
predicate, that is, as having a certain attribute, or as belonging to
a certain sort, or as identical with what is specified, -- a word or
words for the predicate being annexed; as, to be happy; to be here;
to be large, or strong; to be an animal; to be a hero; to be a
nonentity; three and two are five; annihilation is the cessation of
existence; that is the man.

3. To take place; to happen; as, the meeting was on Thursday.

4. To signify; to represent or symbolize; to answer to.
The field is the world. Matt. xiii. 38.
The seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches. Rev.
i. 20.

Note: The verb to be (including the forms is, was, etc.) is used in
forming the passive voice of other verbs; as, John has been struck by
James. It is also used with the past participle of many intransitive
verbs to express a state of the subject. But have is now more
commonly used as the auxiliary, though expressing a different sense;
as, "Ye have come too late -- but ye are come. " "The minstrel boy to
the war is gone." The present and imperfect tenses form, with the
infinitive, a particular future tense, which expresses necessity,
duty, or purpose; as, government is to be supported; we are to pay
our just debts; the deed is to be signed to-morrow.

Note: Have or had been, followed by to, implies movement. "I have
been to Paris." Sydney Smith. "Have you been to Franchard " R. L.
Stevenson.

Note: Been, or ben, was anciently the plural of the indicative
present. "Ye ben light of the world." Wyclif, Matt. v. 14. Afterwards
be was used, as in our Bible: "They that be with us are more than
they that be with them." 2 Kings vi. 16. Ben was also the old
infinitive: "To ben of such power." R. of Gloucester. Be is used as a
form of the present subjunctive: "But if it be a question of words
and names." Acts xviii. 15. But the indicative forms, is and are,
with if, are more commonly used. Be it so, a phrase of supposition,
equivalent to suppose it to be so; or of permission, signifying let
it be so. Shak.
 -- If so be, in case.
 -- To be from, to have come from; as, from what place are you I am
from Chicago.
 -- To let be, to omit, or leave untouched; to let alone. "Let be,
therefore, my vengeance to dissuade." Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To be, Exist. The verb to be, except in a few rare case, like
that of Shakespeare's "To be, or not to be", is used simply as a
copula, to connect a subject with its predicate; as, man is mortal;
the soul is immortal. The verb to exist is never properly used as a
mere copula, but points to things that stand forth, or have a
substantive being; as, when the soul is freed from all corporeal
alliance, then it truly exists. It is not, therefore, properly
synonymous with to be when used as a copula, though occasionally made
so by some writers for the sake of variety; as in the phrase "there
exists [is] no reason for laying new taxes." We may, indeed, say, "a
friendship has long existed between them," instead of saying, "there
has long been a friendship between them;" but in this case, exist is
not a mere copula. It is used in its appropriate sense to mark the
friendship as having been long in existence.

BE
Be*. Etym: [AS. be, and in accented form bi, akin to OS. be and bi,
OHG. bi, pi, and pi, MHG. be and bi, G. be and bei, Goth. bi, and
perh. Gr. about (cf. AS. beseón to look about). By, Amb-.]

Defn: A prefix, originally the same word as by; joined with verbs, it
serves: (a) To intensify the meaning; as, bespatter, bestir. (b) To
render an intransitive verb transitive; as, befall (to fall upon);
bespeak (to speak for). (c) To make the action of a verb particular
or definite; as, beget (to get as offspring); beset (to set around).

Note: It is joined with certain substantives, and a few adjectives,
to form verbs; as, bedew, befriend, benight, besot; belate (to make
late); belittle (to make little). It also occurs in certain nouns,
adverbs, and prepositions, often with something of the force of the
preposition by, or about; as, belief (believe), behalf, bequest
(bequeath); because, before, beneath, beside, between. In some words
the original force of be is obscured or lost; as, in become, begin,
behave, behoove, belong.

BEACH
Beach, n.; pl. Beaches (. Etym: [Cf. Sw. backe hill, Dan. bakke,
Icel. bakki hill, bank. Cf. Bank.]

1. Pebbles, collectively; shingle.

2. The shore of the sea, or of a lake, which is washed by the waves;
especially, a sandy or pebbly shore; the strand. Beach flea (Zoöl.),
the common name of many species of amphipod Crustacea, of the family
Orchestidæ, living on the sea beaches, and leaping like fleas.
 -- Beach grass (Bot.), a coarse grass (Ammophila arundinacea),
growing on the sandy shores of lakes and seas, which, by its
interlaced running rootstocks, binds the sand together, and resists
the encroachment of the waves.
 -- Beach wagon, a light open wagon with two or more seats.
 -- Raised beach, an accumulation of water-worn stones, gravel, sand,
and other shore deposits, above the present level of wave action,
whether actually raised by elevation of the coast, as in Norway, or
left by the receding waters, as in many lake and river regions.

BEACH
Beach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beached (p. pr. & vb. n. Beaching.]

Defn: To run or drive (as a vessel or a boat) upon a beach; to
strand; as, to beach a ship.

BEACH COMBER
Beach" comb`er.

Defn: A long, curling wave rolling in from the ocean. See Comber.
[Amer.]

BEACHED
Beached, p. p. & a.

1. Bordered by a beach.
The beached verge of the salt flood. Shak.

2. Driven on a beach; stranded; drawn up on a beach; as, the ship is
beached.

BEACHY
Beach"y, a.

Defn: Having a beach or beaches; formed by a beach or beaches;
shingly.
The beachy girdle of the ocean. Shak.

BEACON
Bea"con, n. Etym: [OE. bekene, AS. beácen, b; akin to OS. b, Fries.
baken, beken, sign, signal, D. baak, OHG. bouhhan, G. bake; of
unknown origin. Cf. Beckon.]

1. A signal fire to notify of the approach of an enemy, or to give
any notice, commonly of warning.
No flaming beacons cast their blaze afar. Gay.

2. A signal or conspicuous mark erected on an eminence near the
shore, or moored in shoal water, as a guide to mariners.

3. A high hill near the shore. [Prov. Eng.]

4. That which gives notice of danger.
Modest doubt is called The beacon of the wise. Shak.
Beacon fire, a signal fire.

BEACON
Bea"con, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beaconed (p. pr. & vb. n. Beaconing.]

1. To give light to, as a beacon; to light up; to illumine.
That beacons the darkness of heaven. Campbell.

2. To furnish with a beacon or beacons.

BEACONAGE
Bea"con*age, n.

Defn: Money paid for the maintenance of a beacon; also, beacons,
collectively.

BEACONLESS
Bea"con*less, a.

Defn: Having no beacon.

BEAD
Bead, n. Etym: [OE. bede prayer, prayer bead, AS. bed, gebed, prayer;
akin to D. bede, G. bitte, AS. biddan, to ask, bid, G. bitten to ask,
and perh. to Gr. to persuade, L. fidere to trust. Beads are used by
the Roman Catholics to count their prayers, one bead being dropped
down a string every time a prayer is said. Cf. Sp. cuenta bead, fr.
contar to count. See Bid, in to bid beads, and Bide.]

1. A prayer. [Obs.]

2. A little perforated ball, to be strung on a thread, and worn for
ornament; or used in a rosary for counting prayers, as by Roman
Catholics and Mohammedans, whence the phrases to tell beads, to at
one's beads, to bid beads, etc., meaning, to be at prayer.

3. Any small globular body; as,
(a) A bubble in spirits.
(b) A drop of sweat or other liquid. "Cold beads of midnight dew."
Wordsworth.
(c) A small knob of metal on a firearm, used for taking aim (whence
the expression to draw a bead, for, to take aim).
(d) (Arch.) A small molding of rounded surface, the section being
usually an arc of a circle. It may be continuous, or broken into
short embossments.
(e) (Chem.) A glassy drop of molten flux, as borax or microcosmic
salt, used as a solvent and color test for several mineral earths and
oxides, as of iron, manganese, etc., before the blowpipe; as, the
borax bead; the iron bead, etc. Bead and butt (Carp.), framing in
which the panels are flush, having beads stuck or run upon the two
edges. Knight.
 -- Beat mold, a species of fungus or mold, the stems of which
consist of single cells loosely jointed together so as to resemble a
string of beads. [Written also bead mould.] -- Bead tool, a cutting
tool, having an edge curved so as to make beads or beading.
 -- Bead tree (Bot.), a tree of the genus Melia, the best known
species of which (M. azedarach), has blue flowers which are very
fragrant, and berries which are poisonous.

BEAD
Bead, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Beading.]

Defn: To ornament with beads or beading.

BEAD
Bead, v. i.

Defn: To form beadlike bubbles.

BEADHOUSE; BEDEHOUSE
Bead"house`, Bede"house`, n. Etym: [OE. bede prayer + E. house. See
Bead, n.]

Defn: An almshouse for poor people who pray daily for their
benefactors.

BEADING
Bead"ing, n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: Molding in imitation of beads.

2. The beads or bead-forming quality of certain liquors; as, the
beading of a brand of whisky.

BEADLE
Bea"dle, n. Etym: [OE. bedel, bidel, budel, OF. bedel, F. bedeau, fr.
OHG. butil, putil, G. büttel, fr. OHG. biotan, G. bieten, to bid,
confused with AS. bydel, the same word as OHG. butil. See. Bid, v.]

1. A messenger or crier of a court; a servitor; one who cites or bids
persons to appear and answer; -- called also an apparitor or
summoner.

2. An officer in a university, who precedes public processions of
officers and students. [Eng.]

Note: In this sense the archaic spellings bedel (Oxford) and bedell
(Cambridge) are preserved.

3. An inferior parish officer in England having a variety of duties,
as the preservation of order in church service, the chastisement of
petty offenders, etc.

BEADLERY
Bea"dle*ry, n.

Defn: Office or jurisdiction of a beadle.

BEADLESHIP
Bea"dle*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being, or the personality of, a beadle. A. Wood.

BEAD PROOF
Bead" proof`.

1. Among distillers, a certain degree of strength in alcoholic
liquor, as formerly ascertained by the floating or sinking of glass
globules of different specific gravities thrown into it; now
ascertained by more accurate meters.

2. A degree of strength in alcoholic liquor as shown by beads or
small bubbles remaining on its surface, or at the side of the glass,
when shaken.

BEADROLL
Bead"roll`, n. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A catalogue of persons, for the rest of whose souls a certain
number of prayers are to be said or counted off on the beads of a
chaplet; hence, a catalogue in general.
On Fame's eternal beadroll worthy to be field. Spenser.
It is quite startling, on going over the beadroll of English
worthies, to find how few are directly represented in the male line.
Quart. Rev.

BEADSMAN; BEDESMAN
Beads"man, Bedes"man, n.; pl. -men (.

Defn: A poor man, supported in a beadhouse, and required to pray for
the soul of its founder; an almsman.
Whereby ye shall bind me to be your poor beadsman for ever unto
Almighty God. Fuller.

BEADSNAKE
Bead"snake`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small poisonous snake of North America (Elaps fulvius),
banded with yellow, red, and black.

BEADSWOMAN; BEDESWOMAN
Beads"wom`an, Bedes"wom`an, n.; pl. -women (.

Defn: Fem. of Beadsman.

BEADWORK
Bead"work`, n.

Defn: Ornamental work in beads.

BEADY
Bead"y, a.

1. Resembling beads; small, round, and glistening. "Beady eyes."
Thackeray.

2. Covered or ornamented with, or as with, beads.

3. Characterized by beads; as, beady liquor.

BEAGLE
Bea"gle, n. Etym: [OE. begele; perh. of Celtic origin; cf. Ir. &
Gael. beag small, little, W. bach. F. bigle is from English.]

1. A small hound, or hunting dog, twelve to fifteen inches high, used
in hunting hares and other small game. See Illustration in Appendix.

2. Fig.: A spy or detective; a constable.

BEAK
Beak, n. Etym: [OE. bek, F. bec, fr. Celtic; cf. Gael. & Ir. bac,
bacc, hook, W. bach.]

Defn: 1. (Zoöl.) (a) The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a horny
sheath, covering the jaws. The form varied much according to the food
and habits of the bird, and is largely used in the classification of
birds. (b) A similar bill in other animals, as the turtles. (c) The
long projecting sucking mouth of some insects, and other
invertebrates, as in the Hemiptera. (d) The upper or projecting part
of the shell, near the hinge of a bivalve. (e) The prolongation of
certain univalve shells containing the canal.

2. Anything projecting or ending in a point, like a beak, as a
promontory of land. Carew.

3. (Antiq.)

Defn: A beam, shod or armed at the end with a metal head or point,
and projecting from the prow of an ancient galley, in order to pierce
the vessel of an enemy; a beakhead.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: That part of a ship, before the forecastle, which is fastened
to the stem, and supported by the main knee.

5. (Arch.)

Defn: A continuous slight projection ending in an arris or narrow
fillet; that part of a drip from which the water is thrown off.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: Any process somewhat like the beak of a bird, terminating the
fruit or other parts of a plant.

7. (Far.)

Defn: A toe clip. See Clip, n. (Far.).

8. A magistrate or policeman. [Slang, Eng.]

BEAKED
Beaked, a.

1. Having a beak or a beaklike point; beak-shaped. "Each beaked
promontory." Milton.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Furnished with a process or a mouth like a beak; rostrate.
Beaked whale (Zoöl.), a cetacean of the genus Hyperoodon; the
bottlehead whale.

BEAKER
Beak"er, n. Etym: [OE. biker; akin to Icel. bikarr, Sw. bägare, Dan.
baeger, G. becher, It. bicchiere; -- all fr. LL. bicarium, prob. fr.
Gr. wine jar, or perh. L. bacar wine vessel. Cf. Pitcher a jug.]

1. A large drinking cup, with a wide mouth, supported on a foot or
standard.

2. An open-mouthed, thin glass vessel, having a projecting lip for
pouring; -- used for holding solutions requiring heat. Knight.

BEAKHEAD
Beak"head`, n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament used in rich Norman doorways, resembling a head
with a beak. Parker.

2. (Naut.)
(a) A small platform at the fore part of the upper deck of a vessel,
which contains the water closets of the crew.
(b) (Antiq.) Same as Beak, 3.

BEAKIRON
Beak"i*ron, n. Etym: [From Bickern.]

Defn: A bickern; a bench anvil with a long beak, adapted to reach the
interior surface of sheet metal ware; the horn of an anvil.

BEAL
Beal (, n. Etym: [See Boil a tumor.] (Med.)

Defn: A small inflammatory tumor; a pustule. [Prov. Eng.]

BEAL
Beal, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bealed (; p. pr & vb. n. Bealing.]

Defn: To gather matter; to swell and come to a head, as a pimple.
[Prov. Eng.]

BE-ALL
Be"-all`, n.

Defn: The whole; all that is to be. [Poetic] Shak.

BEAM
Beam, n. Etym: [AS. beám beam, post, tree, ray of light; akin to
OFries. bam tree, OS. b, D. boom, OHG. boum, poum, G. baum, Icel. ba,
Goth. bahms and Gr. a growth, to become, to be. Cf. L. radius staff,
rod, spoke of a wheel, beam or ray, and G. strahl arrow, spoke of a
wheel, ray or beam, flash of lightning. Be; cf. Boom a spar.]

1. Any large piece of timber or iron long in proportion to its
thickness, and prepared for use.

2. One of the principal horizontal timbers of a building or ship.
The beams of a vessel are strong pieces of timber stretching across
from side to side to support the decks. Totten.

3. The width of a vessel; as, one vessel is said to have more beam
than another.

4. The bar of a balance, from the ends of which the scales are
suspended.
The doubtful beam long nods from side to side. Pope.

5. The principal stem or horn of a stag or other deer, which bears
the antlers, or branches.

6. The pole of a carriage. [Poetic] Dryden.

7. A cylinder of wood, making part of a loom, on which weavers wind
the warp before weaving; also, the cylinder on which the cloth is
rolled, as it is woven; one being called the fore beam, the other the
back beam.

8. The straight part or shank of an anchor.

9. The main part of a plow, to which the handles and colter are
secured, and to the end of which are attached the oxen or horses that
draw it.

10. (Steam Engine)

Defn: A heavy iron lever having an oscillating motion on a central
axis, one end of which is connected with the piston rod from which it
receives motion, and the other with the crank of the wheel shaft; --
called also working beam or walking beam.

11. A ray or collection of parallel rays emitted from the sun or
other luminous body; as, a beam of light, or of heat.
How far that little candle throws his beams ! Shak.

12. Fig.: A ray; a gleam; as, a beam of comfort.
Mercy with her genial beam. Keble.

13. One of the long feathers in the wing of a hawk; -- called also
beam feather. Abaft the beam (Naut.), in an arc of the horizon
between a line that crosses the ship at right angles, or in the
direction of her beams, and that point of the compass toward which
her stern is directed.
 -- Beam center (Mach.), the fulcrum or pin on which the working beam
of an engine vibrates.
 -- Beam compass, an instrument consisting of a rod or beam, having
sliding sockets that carry steel or pencil points; -- used for
drawing or describing large circles.
 -- Beam engine, a steam engine having a working beam to transmit
power, in distinction from one which has its piston rod attached
directly to the crank of the wheel shaft.
 -- Before the beam (Naut.), in an arc of the horizon included
between a line that crosses the ship at right angles and that point
of the compass toward which the ship steers.
 -- On the beam , in a line with the beams, or at right angled with
the keel.
 -- On the weather beam, on the side of a ship which faces the wind.
 -- To be on her beam ends, to incline, as a vessel, so much on one
side that her beams approach a vertical position.

BEAM
Beam, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beamed (p. pr. & vb. n. Beaming.]

Defn: To send forth; to emit; -- followed ordinarily by forth; as, to
beam forth light.

BEAM
Beam, v. i.

Defn: To emit beams of light.
He beamed, the daystar of the rising age. Trumbull.

BEAMBIRD
Beam"bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European flycatcher (Muscicapa gricola), so called
because it often nests on a beam in a building.

BEAMED
Beamed, a.

Defn: Furnished with beams, as the head of a stag.
Tost his beamed frontlet to the sky. Sir W. Scott.

BEAMFUL
Beam"ful, a.

Defn: Beamy; radiant.

BEAMILY
Beam"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a beaming manner.

BEAMINESS
Beam"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being beamy.

BEAMING
Beam"ing, a.

Defn: Emitting beams; radiant.

BEAMINGLY
Beam"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a beaming manner; radiantly.

BEAMLESS
Beam"less, a.

1. Not having a beam.

2. Not emitting light.

BEAMLET
Beam"let, n.

Defn: A small beam of light.

BEAM TREE
Beam" tree`. Etym: [AS. beám a tree. See Beam.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree (Pyrus aria) related to the apple.

BEAMY
Beam"y, a.

1. Emitting beams of light; radiant; shining. "Beamy gold." Tickell.

2. Resembling a beam in size and weight; massy.
His double-biting ax, and beamy spear. Dryden.

3. Having horns, or antlers.
Beamy stags in toils engage. Dryden.

BEAN
Bean, n. Etym: [OE. bene, AS.beán; akin to D. boon, G. bohne, OHG. p,
Icel. baun, Dan. bönne, Sw. böna, and perh. to Russ. bob, L. faba.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chiefly
of the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs.

Note: The origin and classification of many kinds are still doubtful.
Among true beans are: the black-eyed bean and China bean, included in
Dolichos Sinensis; black Egyptian bean or hyacinth bean, D. Lablab;
the common haricot beans, kidney beans, string beans, and pole beans,
all included in Phaseolus vulgaris; the lower bush bean, Ph.
vulgaris, variety nanus; Lima bean, Ph. lunatus; Spanish bean and
scarlet runner, Ph. maltiflorus; Windsor bean, the common bean of
England, Faba vulgaris. As an article of food beans are classed with
vegetables.

2. The popular name of other vegetable seeds or fruits, more or less
resembling true beans. Bean aphis (Zoöl.), a plant louse (Aphis fabæ)
which infests the bean plant.
 -- Bean fly (Zoöl.), a fly found on bean flowers.
 -- Bean goose (Zoöl.), a species of goose (Anser segetum).
 -- Bean weevil (Zoöl.), a small weevil that in the larval state
destroys beans. The American species in Bruchus fabæ.
 -- Florida bean (Bot.), the seed of Mucuna urens, a West Indian
plant. The seeds are washed up on the Florida shore, and are often
polished and made into ornaments.
 -- Ignatius bean, or St. Ignatius's bean (Bot.), a species of
Strychnos.
 -- Navy bean, the common dried white bean of commerce; probably so
called because an important article of food in the navy.
 -- Pea bean, a very small and highly esteemed variety of the edible
white bean; -- so called from its size.
 -- Sacred bean. See under Sacred.
 -- Screw bean. See under Screw.
 -- Sea bean. (a) Same as Florida bean. (b) A red bean of unknown
species used for ornament.
 -- Tonquin bean, or Tonka bean, the fragrant seed of Dipteryx
odorata, a leguminous tree.
 -- Vanilla bean. See under Vanilla.

BEAN CAPER
Bean" ca`per. (Bot.)

Defn: A deciduous plant of warm climates, generally with fleshy
leaves and flowers of a yellow or whitish yellow color, of the genus
Zygophyllum.

BEAN TREFOIL
Bean" tre"foil. (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous shrub of southern Europe, with trifoliate leaves
(Anagyris foetida).

BEAR
Bear, v. t. [imp. Bore (formerly Bare (); p. p. Born, Borne (p. pr. &
vb. n. Bearing.] Etym: [OE. beren, AS. beran, beoran, to bear, carry,
produce; akin to D. baren to bring forth, G. gebären, Goth. baíran to
bear or carry, Icel. bera, Sw. bära, Dan. bære, OHG. beran, peran, L.
ferre to bear, carry, produce, Gr. , OSlav brati to take, carry, OIr.
berim I bear, Skr. bh to bear. sq. root92. Cf. Fertile.]

1. To support or sustain; to hold up.

2. To support and remove or carry; to convey.
I 'll bear your logs the while. Shak.

3. To conduct; to bring; -- said of persons. [Obs.]
Bear them to my house. Shak.

4. To possess and use, as power; to exercise.
Every man should bear rule in his own house. Esther i. 22.

5. To sustain; to have on (written or inscribed, or as a mark), as,
the tablet bears this inscription.

6. To possess or carry, as a mark of authority or distinction; to
wear; as, to bear a sword, badge, or name.

7. To possess mentally; to carry or hold in the mind; to entertain;
to harbor Dryden.
The ancient grudge I bear him. Shak.

8. To endure; to tolerate; to undergo; to suffer.
Should such a man, too fond to rule alone, Bear, like the Turk, no
brother near the throne. Pope.
I cannot bear The murmur of this lake to hear. Shelley.
My punishment is greater than I can bear. Gen. iv. 13.

9. To gain or win. [Obs.]
Some think to bear it by speaking a great word. Bacon.
She was . . . found not guilty, through bearing of friends and
bribing of the judge. Latimer.

10. To sustain, or be answerable for, as blame, expense,
responsibility, etc.
He shall bear their iniquities. Is. liii. 11.
Somewhat that will bear your charges. Dryden.

11. To render or give; to bring forward. "Your testimony bear"
Dryden.

12. To carry on, or maintain; to have. "The credit of bearing a part
in the conversation." Locke.

13. To admit or be capable of; that is, to suffer or sustain without
violence, injury, or change.
In all criminal cases the most favorable interpretation should be put
on words that they can possibly bear. Swift.

14. To manage, wield, or direct. "Thus must thou thy body bear."
Shak. Hence: To behave; to conduct.
Hath he borne himself penitently in prison Shak.

15. To afford; to be to ; to supply with.
bear him company. Pope.

16. To bring forth or produce; to yield; as, to bear apples; to bear
children; to bear interest.
Here dwelt the man divine whom Samos bore. Dryden.

Note: In the passive form of this verb, the best modern usage
restricts the past participle born to the sense of brought forth,
while borne is used in the other senses of the word. In the active
form, borne alone is used as the past participle. To bear down. (a)
To force into a lower place; to carry down; to depress or sink. "His
nose, . . . large as were the others, bore them down into
insignificance." Marryat. (b) To overthrow or crush by force; as, to
bear down an enemy.
 -- To bear a hand. (a) To help; to give assistance. (b) (Naut.) To
make haste; to be quick.
 -- To bear in hand, to keep (one) up in expectation, usually by
promises never to be realized; to amuse by false pretenses; to
delude. [Obs.] "How you were borne in hand, how crossed." Shak.
 -- To bear in mind, to remember.
 -- To bear off. (a) To restrain; to keep from approach. (b) (Naut.)
To remove to a distance; to keep clear from rubbing against anything;
as, to bear off a blow; to bear off a boat. (c) To gain; to carry
off, as a prize.
 -- To bear one hard, to owe one a grudge. [Obs.] "Cæsar doth bear me
hard." Shak.
 -- To bear out. (a) To maintain and support to the end; to defend to
the last. "Company only can bear a man out in an ill thing." South.
(b) To corroborate; to confirm.
 -- To bear up, to support; to keep from falling or sinking.
"Religious hope bears up the mind under sufferings." Addison.

Syn.
 -- To uphold; sustain; maintain; support; undergo; suffer; endure;
tolerate; carry; convey; transport; waft.

BEAR
Bear, v. i.

1. To produce, as fruit; to be fruitful, in opposition to barrenness.
This age to blossom, and the next to bear. Dryden.

2. To suffer, as in carrying a burden.
But man is born to bear. Pope.

3. To endure with patience; to be patient.
I can not, can not bear. Dryden.

4. To press; -- with on or upon, or against.
These men bear hard on the suspected party. Addison.

5. To take effect; to have influence or force; as, to bring matters
to bear.

6. To relate or refer; -- with on or upon; as, how does this bear on
the question

7. To have a certain meaning, intent, or effect.
Her sentence bore that she should stand a certain time upon the
platform. Hawthorne.

8. To be situated, as to the point of compass, with respect to
something else; as, the land bears N. by E. To bear against, to
approach for attack or seizure; as, a lion bears against his prey.
[Obs.] -- To bear away (Naut.), to change the course of a ship, and
make her run before the wind.
 -- To bear back, to retreat. "Bearing back from the blows of their
sable antagonist." Sir W. Scott.
 -- To bear down upon (Naut.), to approach from the windward side;
as, the fleet bore down upon the enemy.
 -- To bear in with (Naut.), to run or tend toward; as, a ship bears
in with the land.
 -- To bear off (Naut.), to steer away, as from land.
 -- To bear up. (a) To be supported; to have fortitude; to be firm;
not to sink; as, to bear up under afflictions. (b) (Naut.) To put the
helm up (or to windward) and so put the ship before the wind; to bear
away. Hamersly.
 -- To bear upon (Mil.), to be pointed or situated so as to affect;
to be pointed directly against, or so as to hit (the object); as, to
bring or plant guns so as to bear upon a fort or a ship; the
artillery bore upon the center.
 -- To bear up to, to tend or move toward; as, to bear up to one
another.
 -- To bear with, to endure; to be indulgent to; to forbear to
resent, oppose, or punish.

BEAR
Bear, n.

Defn: A bier. [Obs.] Spenser.

BEAR
Bear, n. Etym: [OE. bere, AS. bera; akin to D. beer, OHG. bero, pero,
G. bär, Icel. & Sw. björn, and possibly to L. fera wild beast, Gr.
beast, Skr. bhalla bear.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Ursus, and of the closely allied
genera. Bears are plantigrade Carnivora, but they live largely on
fruit and insects.

Note: The European brown bear (U. arctos), the white polar bear (U.
maritimus), the grizzly bear (U. horribilis), the American black
bear, and its variety the cinnamon bear (U. Americanus), the Syrian
bear (Ursus Syriacus), and the sloth bear, are among the notable
species.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An animal which has some resemblance to a bear in form or
habits, but no real affinity; as, the woolly bear; ant bear; water
bear; sea bear.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: One of two constellations in the northern hemisphere, called
respectively the Great Bear and the Lesser Bear, or Ursa Major and
Ursa Minor.

4. Metaphorically: A brutal, coarse, or morose person.

5. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: A person who sells stocks or securities for future delivery in
expectation of a fall in the market.

Note: The bears and bulls of the Stock Exchange, whose interest it
is, the one to depress, and the other to raise, stocks, are said to
be so called in allusion to the bear's habit of pulling down, and the
bull's of tossing up.

6. (Mach.)

Defn: A portable punching machine.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: A block covered with coarse matting; -- used to scour the deck.
Australian bear. (Zoöl.) See Koala.
 -- Bear baiting, the sport of baiting bears with dogs.
 -- Bear caterpillar (Zoöl.), the hairy larva of a moth, esp. of the
genus Euprepia.
 -- Bear garden. (a) A place where bears are kept for diversion or
fighting. (b) Any place where riotous conduct is common or permitted.
M. Arnold.
 -- Bear leader, one who leads about a performing bear for money;
hence, a facetious term for one who takes charge of a young man on
his travels.

BEAR
Bear, v. t. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: To endeavor to depress the price of, or prices in; as, to bear
a railroad stock; to bear the market.

BEAR; BERE
Bear, Bere, n. Etym: [AS. bere. See Barley.] (Bot.)

Defn: Barley; the six-rowed barley or the four-rowed barley, commonly
the former (Hord. vulgare). [Obs. except in North of Eng. and Scot.]

BEARABLE
Bear"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being borne or endured; tolerable.
 -- Bear"a*bly, adv.

BEARBERRY
Bear"ber*ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A trailing plant of the heath family (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi),
having leaves which are tonic and astringent, and glossy red berries
of which bears are said to be fond.

BEARBIND
Bear"bind`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).

BEARD
Beard, n. Etym: [OE. berd, AS. beard; akin to Fries. berd, D. baard,
G. bart, Lith. barzda, OSlav. brada, Pol. broda, Russ. boroda, L.
barba, W. barf. Cf. 1st Barb.]

1. The hair that grows on the chin, lips, and adjacent parts of the
human face, chiefly of male adults.

2. (Zoöl.)
(a) The long hairs about the face in animals, as in the goat.
(b) The cluster of small feathers at the base of the beak in some
birds
(c) The appendages to the jaw in some Cetacea, and to the mouth or
jaws of some fishes.
(d) The byssus of certain shellfish, as the muscle.
(e) The gills of some bivalves, as the oyster.
(f) In insects, the hairs of the labial palpi of moths and
butterflies.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Long or stiff hairs on a plant; the awn; as, the beard of
grain.

4. A barb or sharp point of an arrow or other instrument, projecting
backward to prevent the head from being easily drawn out.

5. That part of the under side of a horse's lower jaw which is above
the chin, and bears the curb of a bridle.

6. (Print.)

Defn: That part of a type which is between the shoulder of the shank
and the face.

7. An imposition; a trick. [Obs.] Chaucer. Beard grass (Bot.), a
coarse, perennial grass of different species of the genus Andropogon.
 -- To one's beard, to one's face; in open defiance.

BEARD
Beard, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bearded; p. pr. & vb. n. Bearding.]

1. To take by the beard; to seize, pluck, or pull the beard of (a
man), in anger or contempt.

2. To oppose to the gills; to set at defiance.
No admiral, bearded by three corrupt and dissolute minions of the
palace, dared to do more than mutter something about a court martial.
Macaulay.

3. To deprive of the gills; -- used only of oysters and similar
shellfish.

BEARDED
Beard"ed, a.

Defn: Having a beard. "Bearded fellow." Shak. "Bearded grain."
Dryden. Bearded vulture, Bearded eagle. (Zoöl.) See Lammergeir.
 -- Bearded tortoise. (Zoöl.) See Matamata.

BEARDIE
Beard"ie, n. Etym: [From Beard, n.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bearded loach (Nemachilus barbatus) of Europe. [Scot.]

BEARDLESS
Beard"less, a.

1. Without a beard. Hence: Not having arrived at puberty or manhood;
youthful.

2. Destitute of an awn; as, beardless wheat.

BEARDLESSNESS
Beard"less*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being destitute of beard.

BEARER
Bear"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, bears, sustains, or carries. "Bearers of
burdens." 2 Chron. ii. 18. "The bearer of unhappy news." Dryden.

2. Specifically: One who assists in carrying a body to the grave; a
pallbearer. Milton.

3. A palanquin carrier; also, a house servant. [India]

4. A tree or plant yielding fruit; as, a good bearer.

5. (Com.)

Defn: One who holds a check, note, draft, or other order for the
payment of money; as, pay to bearer.

6. (Print.)

Defn: A strip of reglet or other furniture to bear off the impression
from a blank page; also, a type or type-high piece of metal
interspersed in blank parts to support the plate when it is shaved.

BEARHERD
Bear"herd`, n.

Defn: A man who tends a bear.

BEARHOUND
Bear"hound`, n.

Defn: A hound for baiting or hunting bears. Car

BEARING
Bear"ing, n.

1. The manner in which one bears or conducts one's self; mien;
behavior; carriage.
I know him by his bearing. Shak.

2. Patient endurance; suffering without complaint.

3. The situation of one object, with respect to another, such
situation being supposed to have a connection with the object, or
influence upon it, or to be influenced by it; hence, relation;
connection.
But of this frame, the bearings and the ties, The strong connections,
nice dependencies. Pope.

4. Purport; meaning; intended significance; aspect.

5. The act, power, or time of producing or giving birth; as, a tree
in full bearing; a tree past bearing.
[His mother] in travail of his bearing. R. of Gloucester.

6. (Arch.)
(a) That part of any member of a building which rests upon its
supports; as, a lintel or beam may have four inches of bearing upon
the wall.
(b) The portion of a support on which anything rests.
(c) Improperly, the unsupported span; as, the beam has twenty feet of
bearing between its supports.

7. (Mach.)
(a) The part of an axle or shaft in contact with its support, collar,
or boxing; the journal.
(b) The part of the support on which a journal rests and rotates.

8. (Her.)

Defn: Any single emblem or charge in an escutcheon or coat of arms --
commonly in the pl.
A carriage covered with armorial bearings. Thackeray.

9. (Naut.)
(a) The situation of a distant object, with regard to a ship's
position, as on the bow, on the lee quarter, etc.; the direction or
point of the compass in which an object is seen; as, the bearing of
the cape was W. N. W. (b) pl.

Defn: The widest part of a vessel below the plank-sheer. (c) pl.

Defn: The line of flotation of a vessel when properly trimmed with
cargo or ballast. Ball bearings. See under Ball.
 -- To bring one to his bearings, to bring one to his senses.
 -- To lose one's bearings, to become bewildered.
 -- To take bearings, to ascertain by the compass the position of an
object; to ascertain the relation of one object or place to another;
to ascertain one's position by reference to landmarks or to the
compass; hence (Fig.), to ascertain the condition of things when one
is in trouble or perplexity.

Syn.
 -- Deportment; gesture; mien; behavior; manner; carriage; demeanor;
port; conduct; direction; relation; tendency; influence.

BEARING CLOTH
Bear"ing cloth`.

Defn: A cloth with which a child is covered when carried to be
baptized. Shak.

BEARING REIN
Bear"ing rein`.

Defn: A short rein looped over the check hook or the hames to keep
the horse's head up; -- called in the United States a checkrein.

BEARING RING
Bear"ing ring`.

Defn: In a balloon, the braced wooden ring attached to the suspension
ropes at the bottom, functionally analogous to the keel of a ship.

BEARISH
Bear"ish, a.

Defn: Partaking of the qualities of a bear; resembling a bear in
temper or manners. Harris.

BEARISHNESS
Bear"ish*ness, n.

Defn: Behavior like that of a bear.

BEARN
Bearn, n.

Defn: See Bairn. [Obs.]

BEAR'S-BREECH
Bear's"-breech`, n. (Bot.)
(a) See Acanthus, n., 1.
(b) The English cow parsnip (Heracleum sphondylium) Dr. Prior.

BEAR'S-EAR
Bear's-ear`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of primrose (Primula auricula), so called from the shape
of the leaf.

BEAR'S-FOOT
Bear's"-foot`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of hellebore (Helleborus foetidus), with digitate
leaves. It has an offensive smell and acrid taste, and is a powerful
emetic, cathartic, and anthelmintic.

BEARSKIN
Bear"skin`, n.

1. The skin of a bear.

2. A coarse, shaggy, woolen cloth for overcoats.

3. A cap made of bearskin, esp. one worn by soldiers.

BEAR'S-PAW
Bear's"-paw`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large bivalve shell of the East Indies (Hippopus maculatus),
often used as an ornament.

BEAR STATE
Bear State.

Defn: Arkansas; -- a nickname, from the many bears once inhabiting
its forests.

BEAR-TRAP DAM
Bear"-trap` dam. (Engin.)

Defn: A kind of movable dam, in one form consisting of two leaves
resting against each other at the top when raised and folding down
one over the other when lowered, for deepening shallow parts in a
river.

BEARWARD
Bear"ward`, n. Etym: [Bear + ward a keeper.]

Defn: A keeper of bears. See Bearherd. [R.] Shak.

BEAST
Beast, n. Etym: [OE. best, beste, OF. beste, F. bête, fr. L. bestia.]

1. Any living creature; an animal; -- including man, insects, etc.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Any four-footed animal, that may be used for labor, food, or
sport; as, a beast of burden.
A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast. Prov. xii. 10.

3. As opposed to man: Any irrational animal.

4. Fig.: A coarse, brutal, filthy, or degraded fellow.

5. A game at cards similar to loo. [Obs.] Wright.

6. A penalty at beast, omber, etc. Hence: To be beasted, to be beaten
at beast, omber, etc. Beast royal, the lion. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Beast, Brute. When we use these words in a figurative sense, as
applicable to human beings, we think of beasts as mere animals
governed by animal appetite; and of brutes as being destitute of
reason or moral feeling, and governed by unrestrained passion. Hence
we speak of beastly appetites; beastly indulgences, etc.; and of
brutal manners; brutal inhumanity; brutal ferocity. So, also, we say
of a drunkard, that he first made himself a beast, and then treated
his family like a brute.

BEASTHOOD
Beast"hood, n.

Defn: State or nature of a beast.

BEASTINGS
Beast"ings, n. pl.

Defn: See Biestings.

BEASTLIHEAD
Beast"li*head, n. Etym: [Beastly + -head state.]

Defn: Beastliness. [Obs.] Spenser.

BEASTLIKE
Beast"like", a.

Defn: Like a beast.

BEASTLINESS
Beast"li*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being beastly.

BEASTLY
Beast"ly, a.

1. Pertaining to, or having the form, nature, or habits of, a beast.
Beastly divinities and droves of gods. Prior.

2. Characterizing the nature of a beast; contrary to the nature and
dignity of man; brutal; filthy.
The beastly vice of drinking to excess. Swift.

3. Abominable; as, beastly weather. [Colloq. Eng.]

Syn.
 -- Bestial; brutish; irrational; sensual; degrading.

BEAT
Beat, v. t. [imp. Beat; p. p. Beat, Beaten (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Beating.] Etym: [OE. beaten, beten, AS. beátan; akin to Icel. bauta,
OHG. b. Cf. 1st Butt, Button.]

1. To strike repeatedly; to lay repeated blows upon; as, to beat
one's breast; to beat iron so as to shape it; to beat grain, in order
to force out the seeds; to beat eggs and sugar; to beat a drum.
Thou shalt beat some of it [spices] very small. Ex. xxx. 36.
They did beat the gold into thin plates. Ex. xxxix. 3.

2. To punish by blows; to thrash.

3. To scour or range over in hunting, accompanied with the noise made
by striking bushes, etc., for the purpose of rousing game.
To beat the woods, and rouse the bounding prey. Prior.

4. To dash against, or strike, as with water or wind.
A frozen continent . . . beat with perpetual storms. Milton.

5. To tread, as a path.
Pass awful gulfs, and beat my painful way. Blackmore.

6. To overcome in a battle, contest, strife, race, game, etc.; to
vanquish or conquer; to surpass.
He beat them in a bloody battle. Prescott.
For loveliness, it would be hard to beat that. M. Arnold.

7. To cheat; to chouse; to swindle; to defraud; -- often with out.
[Colloq.]

8. To exercise severely; to perplex; to trouble.
Why should any one . . . beat his head about the Latin grammar who
does not intend to be a critic Locke.

9. (Mil.)

Defn: To give the signal for, by beat of drum; to sound by beat of
drum; as, to beat an alarm, a charge, a parley, a retreat; to beat
the general, the reveille, the tattoo. See Alarm, Charge, Parley,
etc. To beat down, to haggle with (any one) to secure a lower price;
to force down. [Colloq.] -- To beat into, to teach or instill, by
repetition.
 -- To beat off, to repel or drive back.
 -- To beat out, to extend by hammering.
 -- To beat out of a thing, to cause to relinquish it, or give it up.
"Nor can anything beat their posterity out of it to this day." South.
 -- To beat the dust. (Man.) (a) To take in too little ground with
the fore legs, as a horse. (b) To perform curvets too precipitately
or too low.
 -- To beat the hoof, to walk; to go on foot.
 -- To beat the wing, to flutter; to move with fluttering agitation.
 -- To beat time, to measure or regulate time in music by the motion
of the hand or foot.
 -- To beat up, to attack suddenly; to alarm or disturb; as, to beat
up an enemy's quarters.

Syn.
 -- To strike; pound; bang; buffet; maul; drub; thump; baste; thwack;
thrash; pommel; cudgel; belabor; conquer; defeat; vanquish; overcome.

BEAT
Beat, v. i.

1. To strike repeatedly; to inflict repeated blaows; to knock
vigorously or loudly.
The men of the city . . . beat at the door. Judges. xix. 22.

2. To move with pulsation or throbbing.
A thousand hearts beat happily. Byron.

3. To come or act with violence; to dash or fall with force; to
strike anything, as, rain, wind, and waves do.
Sees rolling tempests vainly beat below. Dryden.
They [winds] beat at the crazy casement. Longfellow.
The sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted, and wisbed in
himself to die. Jonah iv. 8.
Public envy seemeth to beat chiefly upon ministers. Bacon.

4. To be in agitation or doubt. [Poetic]
To still my beating mind. Shak
.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To make progress against the wind, by sailing in a zigzag line
or traverse.

6. To make a sound when struck; as, the drums beat.

7. (Mil.)

Defn: To make a succession of strokes on a drum; as, the drummers
beat to call soldiers to their quarters.

8. (Acoustics & Mus.)

Defn: To sound with more or less rapid alternations of greater and
less intensity, so as to produce a pulsating effect; -- said of
instruments, tones, or vibrations, not perfectly in unison. A beating
wind (Naut.), a wind which necessitates tacking in order to make
progress.
 -- To beat about, to try to find; to search by various means or
ways. Addison.
 -- To beat about the bush, to approach a subject circuitously.
 -- To beat up and down (Hunting), to run first one way and then
another; -- said of a stag.
 -- To beat up for recruits, to go diligently about in order to get
helpers or participators in an enterprise.

BEAT
Beat, n.

1. A stroke; a blow.
He, with a careless beat, Struck out the mute creation at a heat.
Dryden.

2. A recurring stroke; a throb; a pulsation; as, a beat of the heart;
the beat of the pulse.

3. (Mus.)
(a) The rise or fall of the hand or foot, marking the divisions of
time; a division of the measure so marked. In the rhythm of music the
beat is the unit.
(b) A transient grace note, struck immediately before the one it is
intended to ornament.

4. (Acoustics & Mus.)

Defn: A sudden swelling or reënforcement of a sound, recurring at
regular intervals, and produced by the interference of sound waves of
slightly different periods of vibrations; applied also, by analogy,
to other kinds of wave motions; the pulsation or throbbing produced
by the vibrating together of two tones not quite in unison. See Beat,
v. i., 8.

5. A round or course which is frequently gone over; as, a watchman's
beat.

6. A place of habitual or frequent resort.

7. A cheat or swindler of the lowest grade; -- often emphasized by
dead; as, a dead beat. [Low] Beat of drum (Mil.), a succession of
strokes varied, in different ways, for particular purposes, as to
regulate a march, to call soldiers to their arms or quarters, to
direct an attack, or retreat, etc.
 -- Beat of a watch, or clock, the stroke or sound made by the action
of the escapement. A clock is in beat or out of beat, according as
the strokes is at equal or unequal intervals.

BEAT
Beat, a.

Defn: Weary; tired; fatigued; exhausted. [Colloq.]
Quite beat, and very much vexed and disappointed. Dickens.

BEATEN
Beat"en, a.

1. Made smooth by beating or treading; worn by use. "A broad and
beaten way." Milton. "Beaten gold." Shak.

2. Vanquished; conquered; baffled.

3. Exhausted; tired out.

4. Become common or trite; as, a beaten phrase. [Obs.]

5. Tried; practiced. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

BEATER
Beat"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, beats.

2. A person who beats up game for the hunters. Black.

BEATH
Beath, v. t. Etym: [AS. be to foment.]

Defn: To bathe; also, to dry or heat, as unseasoned wood. [Obs.]
Spenser.

BEATIFIC; BEATIFICAL
Be`a*tif"ic, Be`a*tif"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. béatifique, L.
beatificus. See Beatify.]

Defn: Having the power to impart or complete blissful enjoyment;
blissful. "The beatific vision." South.
 -- Be`a*tif"ic*al*ly, adv.

BEATIFICATE
Be`a*tif"i*cate, v. t.

Defn: To beatify. [Obs.] Fuller.

BEATIFICATION
Be*at`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. béatification.]

Defn: The act of beatifying, or the state of being beatified; esp.,
in the R. C. Church, the act or process of ascertaining and declaring
that a deceased person is one of "the blessed," or has attained the
second degree of sanctity, -- usually a stage in the process of
canonization. "The beatification of his spirit." Jer. Taylor.

BEATIFY
Be*at"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beatified (p. pr. & vb. n.
Beatifying.] Etym: [L. beatificare; beatus happy (fr. beare to bless,
akin to bonus good) + facere to make: cf. F. béatifier. See Bounty.]

1. To pronounce or regard as happy, or supremely blessed, or as
conferring happiness.
The common conceits and phrases that beatify wealth. Barrow.

2. To make happy; to bless with the completion of celestial
enjoyment. "Beatified spirits." Dryden.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: To ascertain and declare, by a public process and decree, that
a deceased person is one of "the blessed" and is to be reverenced as
such, though not canonized.

BEATING
Beat"ing, n.

1. The act of striking or giving blows; punishment or chastisement by
blows.

2. Pulsation; throbbing; as, the beating of the heart.

3. (Acoustics & Mus.)

Defn: Pulsative sounds. See Beat, n.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: The process of sailing against the wind by tacks in zigzag
direction.

BEATITUDE
Be*at"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. beatitudo: cf. F. béatitude. See Beatify.]

1. Felicity of the highest kind; consummate bliss.

2. Any one of the nine declarations (called the Beatitudes), made in
the Sermon on the Mount (Matt. v. 3-12), with regard to the
blessedness of those who are distinguished by certain specified
virtues.

3. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Beatification. Milman.

Syn.
 -- Blessedness; felicity; happiness.

BEAU
Beau, n.; pl. F. Beaux (E. pron. b), E. Beaus. Etym: [F., a fop, fr.
beau fine, beautiful, fr. L. bellus pretty, fine, for bonulus, dim.
of bonus good. See Bounty, and cf. Belle, Beauty.]

1. A man who takes great care to dress in the latest fashion; a
dandy.

2. A man who escorts, or pays attentions to, a lady; an escort; a
lover.

BEAUCATCHER
Beau"catch`er, n.

Defn: A small flat curl worn on the temple by women. [Humorous]

BEAUFET
Beau"fet, n. Etym: [See Buffet.]

Defn: A niche, cupboard, or sideboard for plate, china, glass, etc.;
a buffet.
A beaufet . . . filled with gold and silver vessels. Prescott.

BEAUFIN
Beau"fin, n.

Defn: See Biffin. Wright.

BEAUFORT'S SCALE
Beau"fort's scale`. (Meteor.)

Defn: A scale of wind force devised by Sir F. Beaufort, R. N., in
1805, in which the force is indicated by numbers from 0 to 12.

 The full scale is as follows: -- 0, calm; 1, light air; 2, light
breeze; 3, gentle breeze; 4, moderate breeze; 5, fresh breeze; 6,
strong breeze; 7, moderate gale; 8, fresh gale; 9, strong gale; 10,
whole gale; 11, storm; 12, hurricane.

BEAU IDEAL
Beau" i*de"al. Etym: [F. beau beautiful + idéal ideal.]

Defn: A conception or image of consummate beauty, moral or physical,
formed in the mind, free from all the deformities, defects, and
blemishes seen in actual existence; an ideal or faultless standard or
model.

BEAUISH
Beau"ish, n.

Defn: Like a beau; characteristic of a beau; foppish; fine. "A
beauish young spark." Byrom.

BEAU MONDE
Beau` monde". Etym: [F. beau fine + monde world.]

Defn: The fashionable world; people of fashion and gayety. Prior.

BEAUMONTAGUE
Beau`mon"ta*gue, n.

Defn: A cement used in making joints, filling cracks, etc.  For iron,
the principal constituents are iron borings and sal ammoniac; for
wood, white lead or litharge, whiting, and linseed oil.

BEAUPERE
Beau"pere`, n. Etym: [F. beau pére; beau fair + pére father.]

1. A father. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. A companion. [Obs.] Spenser.

BEAUSEANT
Beau`se`ant", n. Etym: [F. beaucéant.]

Defn: The black and white standard of the Knights Templars.

BEAUSHIP
Beau"ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a beau; the personality of a beau. [Jocular]
Dryden.

BEAUTEOUS
Beau"te*ous, a.

Defn: Full of beauty; beautiful; very handsome. [Mostly poetic] --
Beau"te*ous*ly, adv. --

Defn: Beau"te*ous*ness, n.

BEAUTIED
Beau"tied, p. a.

Defn: Beautiful; embellished. [Poetic] Shak.

BEAUTIFIER
Beau"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, beautifies or makes beautiful.

BEAUTIFUL
Beau"ti*ful, a.

Defn: Having the qualities which constitute beauty; pleasing to the
sight or the mind.
A circle is more beautiful than a square; a square is more beautiful
than a parallelogram. Lord Kames.

Syn.
 -- Handsome; elegant; lovely; fair; charming; graceful; pretty;
delightful. See Fine.
 -- Beau"ti*ful*ly, adv.
 -- Beau"ti*ful*ness, n.

BEAUTIFY
Beau"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beautified (p. pr. & vb. n.
Beautifying.] Etym: [Beauty + -fy.]

Defn: To make or render beautiful; to add beauty to; to adorn; to
deck; to grace; to embellish.
The arts that beautify and polish life. Burke.

Syn.
 -- To adorn; grace; ornament; deck; decorate.

BEAUTIFY
Beau"ti*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become beautiful; to advance in beauty. Addison.

BEAUTILESS
Beau"ti*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of beauty. Hammond.

BEAUTY
Beau"ty, n.; pl. Beauties. Etym: [OE. beaute, beute, OF. beauté,
biauté, Pr. beltat, F. beauté, fr. an assumed LL. bellitas, from L.
bellus pretty. See Beau.]

1. An assemblage or graces or properties pleasing to the eye, the
ear, the intellect, the æsthetic faculty, or the moral sense.
Beauty consists of a certain composition of color and figure, causing
delight in the beholder. Locke.
The production of beauty by a multiplicity of symmetrical parts
uniting in a consistent whole. Wordsworth.
The old definition of beauty, in the Roman school, was, "multitude in
unity;" and there is no doubt that such is the principle of beauty.
Coleridge.

2. A particular grace, feature, ornament, or excellence; anything
beautiful; as, the beauties of nature.

3. A beautiful person, esp. a beautiful woman.
All the admired beauties of Verona. Shak.

4. Prevailing style or taste; rage; fashion. [Obs.]
She stained her hair yellow, which was then the beauty. Jer. Taylor.
Beauty spot, a patch or spot placed on the face with intent to
heighten beauty by contrast.

BEAUX
Beaux, n.,

Defn: pl. of Beau.

BEAUXITE
Beaux"ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Bauxite.

BEAVER
Bea"ver, n. Etym: [OE. bever, AS. beofer, befer; akin to D. bever,
OHG. bibar, G. biber, Sw. bäfver, Dan. bæver, Lith. bebru, Russ.
bobr', Gael. beabhar, Corn. befer, L. fiber, and Skr. babhrus large
ichneumon; also as an adj., brown, the animal being probably named
from its color. Brown.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor.

Note: It has palmated hind feet, and a broad, flat tail. It is
remarkable for its ingenuity in constructing its valued for its fur,
and for the material called castor, obtained from two small bags in
the groin of the animal. The European species is Castor fiber, and
the American is generally considered a variety of this, although
sometimes called Castor Canadensis.

2. The fur of the beaver.

3. A hat, formerly made of the fur of the beaver, but now usually of
silk.
A brown beaver slouched over his eyes. Prescott.

4. Beaver cloth, a heavy felted woolen cloth, used chiefly for making
overcoats. Beaver rat (Zoöl.), an aquatic ratlike quadruped of
Tasmania (Hydromys chrysogaster).
 -- Beaver skin, the furry skin of the beaver.
 -- Bank beaver. See under 1st Bank.

BEAVER
Bea"ver, n. Etym: [OE. baviere, bauier, beavoir, bever; fr. F.
bavière, fr. bave slaver, drivel, foam, OF., prattle, drivel, perh.
orig. an imitative word. Bavière, according to Cotgrave, is the bib
put before a (slavering) child.]

Defn: That piece of armor which protected the lower part of the face,
whether forming a part of the helmet or fixed to the breastplate. It
was so constructed (with joints or otherwise) that the wearer could
raise or lower it to eat and drink.

BEAVERED
Bea"vered, a.

Defn: Covered with, or wearing, a beaver or hat. "His beavered brow."
Pope.

BEAVER STATE
Bea"ver State.

Defn: Oregon; -- a nickname.

BEAVERTEEN
Bea"ver*teen, n.

Defn: A kind of fustian made of coarse twilled cotton, shorn after
dyeing. Simmonds.

BEBEERINE; BEBIRINE
Be*bee"rine, or Be*bi"rine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid got from the bark of the bebeeru, or green heart of
Guiana (Nectandra Rodioei). It is a tonic, antiperiodic, and
febrifuge, and is used in medicine as a substitute for quinine.
[Written also bibirine.]

BEBEERU
Be*bee"ru, n. [Written also bibiru.] [Native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tropical South American tree (Nectandra Rodioi), the bark of
which yields the alkaloid bebeerine, and the wood of which is known
as green heart.

BEBLEED
Be*bleed", v. t.

Defn: To make bloody; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEBLOOD; BEBLOODY
Be*blood", Be*blood"y, v. t.

Defn: To make bloody; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Sheldon.

BEBLOT
Be*blot", v. t.

Defn: To blot; to stain. Chaucer.

BEBLUBBER
Be*blub"ber, v. t.

Defn: To make swollen and disfigured or sullied by weeping; as, her
eyes or cheeks were beblubbered.

BEBUNG
Be"bung, n. [G., lit., a trembling.] (Music)

Defn: A tremolo effect, such as that produced on the piano by
vibratory repetition of a note with sustained use of the pedal.

BECALM
Be*calm", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Becalmed (p. pr. & vb. n. Becalming.]

1. To render calm or quiet; to calm; to still; to appease.
Soft whispering airs . . . becalm the mind. Philips.

2. To keep from motion, or stop the progress of, by the stilling of
the wind; as, the fleet was becalmed.

BECAME
Be*came", imp.

Defn: of Become.

BECARD
Bec"ard, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South American bird of the flycatcher family. (Tityra
inquisetor).

BECAUSE
Be*cause", conj. Etym: [OE. bycause; by + cause.]

1. By or for the cause that; on this account that; for the reason
that. Milton.

2. In order that; that. [Obs.]
And the multitude rebuked them because they should hold their peace.
Matt. xx. 31.
Because of, by reason of, on account of. [Prep. phrase.]
Because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of
disobedience. Eph. v. 6.

Syn, -- Because, For, Since, As, Inasmuch As. These particles are
used, in certain connections, to assign the reason of a thing, or
that "on account of" which it is or takes place. Because (by cause)
is the strongest and most emphatic; as, I hid myself because I was
afraid. For is not quite so strong; as, in Shakespeare, "I hate him,
for he is a Christian." Since is less formal and more incidental than
because; as, I will do it since you request me. It more commonly
begins a sentence; as, Since your decision is made, I will say no
more. As is still more incidental than since, and points to some
existing fact by way of assigning a reason. Thus we say, as I knew
him to be out of town, I did not call. Inasmuch as seems to carry
with it a kind of qualification which does not belong to the rest.
Thus, if we say, I am ready to accept your proposal, inasmuch as I
believe it is the best you can offer, we mean, it is only with this
understanding that we can accept it.

BECCABUNGA
Bec`ca*bun"ga, n. Etym: [NL. (cf. It. beccabunga, G. bachbunge), fr.
G. bach brook + bunge, OHG. bungo, bulb. See Beck a brook.]

Defn: See Brooklime.

BECCAFICO
Bec`ca*fi"co, n.; pl. Beccaficos (. Etym: [It., fr. beccare to peck +
fico fig.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small bird. (Silvia hortensis), which is highly prized by the
Italians for the delicacy of its flesh in the autumn, when it has fed
on figs, grapes, etc.

BECCHI'S TEST
Bec"chi's test. [After E. Becchi, Italian chemist.] (Chem.)

Defn: A qualitative test for cottonseed oil, based on the fact this
oil imparts a maroon color to an alcoholic solution of silver
nitrate.

BECHAMEL
Bech"a*mel, n. Etym: [F. béchamel, named from its inventor, Louis de
Béchamel.] (Cookery)

Defn: A rich, white sauce, prepared with butter and cream.

BECHANCE
Be*chance", adv. Etym: [Pref. be- for by + chance.]

Defn: By chance; by accident. [Obs.] Grafton.

BECHANCE
Be*chance", v. t. & i.

Defn: To befall; to chance; to happen to.
God knows what hath bechanced them. Shak.

BECHARM
Be*charm", v. t.

Defn: To charm; to captivate.

BECHE DE MER
Bêche` de mer". Etym: [F., lit., a sea spade.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The trepang.

BECHIC
Be"chic, a. Etym: [L. bechicus, adj., for a cough, Gr. , fr. cough:
cf. F. béchique.] (Med.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough. Thomas.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine for relieving coughs. Quincy.

BECHUANAS
Bech`u*a"nas, n. pl.

Defn: A division of the Bantus, dwelling between the Orange and
Zambezi rivers, supposed to be the most ancient Bantu population of
South Africa. They are divided into totemic clans; they are
intelligent and progressive.

BECK
Beck, n.

Defn: See Beak. [Obs.] Spenser.

BECK
Beck, n. Etym: [OE. bek, AS. becc; akin to Icel. bekkr brook, OHG.
pah, G. bach.]

Defn: A small brook.
The brooks, the becks, the rills. Drayton.

BECK
Beck, n.

Defn: A vat. See Back.

BECK
Beck, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Becked (; p. pr. & vb. n. Becking.] Etym:
[Contr. of beckon.]

Defn: To nod, or make a sign with the head or hand. [Archaic]
Drayton.

BECK
Beck, v. t.

Defn: To notify or call by a nod, or a motion of the head or hand; to
intimate a command to. [Archaic]
When gold and silver becks me to come on. Shak.

BECK
Beck, n.

Defn: A significant nod, or motion of the head or hand, esp. as a
call or command.
They have troops of soldiers at their beck. Shak.

BECKER
Beck"er, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European fish (Pagellus centrodontus); the sea bream or
braise.

BECKET
Beck"et, n. Etym: [Cf. D. bek beak, and E. beak.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A small grommet, or a ring or loop of rope

2. A spade for digging turf. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

BECKON
Beck"on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beckoned (p. pr. & vb. n. Beckoning.]

Defn: To make a significant sign to; hence, to summon, as by a motion
of the hand.
His distant friends, he beckons near. Dryden.
It beckons you to go away with it. Shak.

BECKON
Beck"on, n.

Defn: A sign made without words; a beck. "At the first beckon."
Bolingbroke.

BECK'S SCALE
Beck's scale.

Defn: A hydrometer scale on which the zero point corresponds to sp.
gr. 1.00, and the 30º-point to sp. gr. 0.85. From these points the
scale is extended both ways, all the degrees being of equal length.

BECLAP
Be*clap, v. t. Etym: [OE. biclappen.]

Defn: To catch; to grasp; to insnare. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BECLIP
Be*clip", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beclipped ( Etym: [AS. beclyppan; pref.
be + clyppan to embrace.]

Defn: To embrace; to surround. [Obs.] Wyclif.

BECLOUD
Be*cloud", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beclouded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Beclouding.]

Defn: To cause obscurity or dimness to; to dim; to cloud.
If thou becloud the sunshine of thine eye. Quarles.

BECOME
Be*come", v. i. [imp. Became; p. p. Become; p. pr. & vb. n.
Becoming.] Etym: [OE. bicumen, becumen, AS. becuman to come to, to
happen; akin to D. bekomen, OHG.a piquëman, Goth. biquiman to come
upon, G. bekommen to get, suit. See Be-, and Come.]

1. To pass from one state to another; to enter into some state or
condition, by a change from another state, or by assuming or
receiving new properties or qualities, additional matter, or a new
character.
The Lord God . . . breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and
man became a living soul. Gen. ii. 7.
That error now which is become my crime. Milton.

2. To come; to get. [Obs.]
But, madam, where is Warwick then become! Shak.
To become of, to be the present state or place of; to be the fate of;
to be the end of; to be the final or subsequent condition of.
What is then become of so huge a multitude Sir W. Raleigh.

BECOME
Be*come", v. t.

Defn: To suit or be suitable to; to be congruous with; to befit; to
accord with, in character or circumstances; to be worthy of, or
proper for; to cause to appear well; -- said of persons and things.
It becomes me so to speak of so excellent a poet. Dryden.
I have known persons so anxious to have their dress become them, as
to convert it, at length, into their proper self, and thus actually
to become the dress. Coleridge.

BECOMED
Be*com"ed, a.

Defn: Proper; decorous. [Obs.]
And gave him what becomed love I might. Shak.

BECOMING
Be*com"ing, a.

Defn: Appropriate or fit; congruous; suitable; graceful; befitting.
A low and becoming tone. Thackeray.

Note: Formerly sometimes followed by of.
Such discourses as are becoming of them. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Seemly; comely; decorous; decent; proper.

BECOMING
Be*com"ing, n.

Defn: That which is becoming or appropriate. [Obs.]

BECOMINGLY
Be*com"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a becoming manner.

BECOMINGNESS
Be*com"ing*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being becoming, appropriate, or fit; congruity;
fitness.
The becomingness of human nature. Grew.

BECQUEREL RAYS
Becque`rel" rays". (Physics)

Defn: Radiations first observed by the French physicist Henri
Becquerel, in working with uranium and its compounds. They consist of
a mixture of alpha, beta, and gamma rays.

BECRIPPLE
Be*crip"ple, v. t.

Defn: To make a cripple of; to cripple; to lame. [R.] Dr. H. More.

BECUIBA; BECUIBA NUT
Be*cui"ba, n., Be*cui"ba nut`. [Native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: The nut of the Brazilian tree Myristica Bicuhyba, which yields
a medicinal balsam used for rheumatism.

BECUNA
Be*cu"na, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the Mediterranean (Sphyræna spet). See Barracuda.

BECURL
Be*curl", v. t.

Defn: To curl; to adorn with curls.

BED
Bed, n. Etym: [AS. bed, bedd; akin to OS. bed, D. bed, bedde, Icel.
be, Dan. bed, Sw. bädd, Goth. badi, OHG. betti, G. bett, bette, bed,
beet a plat of ground; all of uncertain origin.]

1. An article of furniture to sleep or take rest in or on; a couch.
Specifically: A sack or mattress, filled with some soft material, in
distinction from the bedstead on which it is placed (as, a feather
bed), or this with the bedclothes added. In a general sense, any
thing or place used for sleeping or reclining on or in, as a quantity
of hay, straw, leaves, or twigs.
And made for him [a horse] a leafy bed. Byron.
I wash, wring, brew, bake, . . . make the beds. Shak.
In bed he slept not for my urging it. Shak.

2. (Used as the symbol of matrimony) Marriage.
George, the eldest son of his second bed. Clarendon.

3. A plat or level piece of ground in a garden, usually a little
raised above the adjoining ground. "Beds of hyacinth and roses."
Milton.

4. A mass or heap of anything arranged like a bed; as, a bed of ashes
or coals.

5. The bottom of a watercourse, or of any body of water; as, the bed
of a river.
So sinks the daystar in the ocean bed. Milton.

6. (Geol.)

Defn: A layer or seam, or a horizontal stratum between layers; as, a
bed of coal, iron, etc.

7. (Gun.)

Defn: See Gun carriage, and Mortar bed.

8. (Masonry)
(a) The horizontal surface of a building stone; as, the upper and
lower beds.
(b) A course of stone or brick in a wall.
(c) The place or material in which a block or brick is laid.
(d) The lower surface of a brick, slate, or tile. Knight.

9. (Mech.)

Defn: The foundation or the more solid and fixed part or framing of a
machine; or a part on which something is laid or supported; as, the
bed of an engine.

10. The superficial earthwork, or ballast, of a railroad.

11. (Printing)

Defn: The flat part of the press, on which the form is laid.

Note: Bed is much used adjectively or in combination; as, bed key or
bedkey; bed wrench or bedwrench; bedchamber; bedmaker, etc. Bed of
justice (French Hist.), the throne (F. lit bed) occupied by the king
when sitting in one of his parliaments (judicial courts); hence, a
session of a refractory parliament, at which the king was present for
the purpose of causing his decrees to be registered.
 -- To be brought to bed, to be delivered of a child; -- often
followed by of; as, to be brought to bed of a son.
 -- To make a bed, to prepare a bed; to arrange or put in order a bed
and its bedding.
 -- From bed and board (Law), a phrase applied to a separation by
partial divorce of man and wife, without dissolving the bonds of
matrimony. If such a divorce (now commonly called a judicial
separation) be granted at the instance of the wife, she may have
alimony.

BED
Bed, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedded; p. pr. & vb. n. Bedding.]

1. To place in a bed. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. To make partaker of one's bed; to cohabit with.
I'll to the Tuscan wars, and never bed her. Shak.

3. To furnish with a bed or bedding.

4. To plant or arrange in beds; to set, or cover, as in a bed of soft
earth; as, to bed the roots of a plant in mold.

5. To lay or put in any hollow place, or place of rest and security,
surrounded or inclosed; to embed; to furnish with or place upon a bed
or foundation; as, to bed a stone; it was bedded on a rock.
Among all chains or clusters of mountains where large bodies of still
water are bedded. Wordsworth.

6. (Masonry)

Defn: To dress or prepare the surface of stone) so as to serve as a
bed.

7. To lay flat; to lay in order; to place in a horizontal or
recumbent position. "Bedded hair." Shak.

BED
Bed, v. i.

Defn: To go to bed; to cohabit.
If he be married, and bed with his wife. Wiseman.

BEDABBLE
Be*dab*ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedabbled (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bedabbling (.]

Defn: To dabble; to sprinkle or wet. Shak.

BEDAFF
Be*daff", v. t.

Defn: To make a daff or fool of. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEDAGAT
Bed"a*gat, n.

Defn: The sacred books of the Buddhists in Burmah. Malcom.

BEDAGGLE
Be*dag"gle, v. t.

Defn: To daggle.

BEDASH
Be*dash", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedashed (p. pr. & vb. n. Bedashing.]

Defn: To wet by dashing or throwing water or other liquid upon; to
bespatter. "Trees bedashed with rain." Shak.

BEDAUB
Be*daub", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedaubed (p. pr. & vb. n. Bedaubing.]

Defn: To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty.
Bedaub foul designs with a fair varnish. Barrow.

BEDAZZLE
Be*daz"zle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedazzled (p. pr. & vb. n. Bedazzling
(

Defn: To dazzle or make dim by a strong light. "Bedazzled with the
sun." Shak.

BEDBUG
Bed"bug`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wingless, bloodsucking, hemipterous insect (Cimex
Lectularius), sometimes infesting houses and especially beds. See
Illustration in Appendix.

BEDCHAIR
Bed"chair`, n.

Defn: A chair with adjustable back, for the sick, to support them
while sitting up in bed.

BEDCHAMBER
Bed"cham`ber, n.

Defn: A chamber for a bed; an apartment form sleeping in. Shak. Lords
of the bedchamber, eight officers of the royal household, all of
noble families, who wait in turn a week each. [Eng.] -- Ladies of the
bedchamber, eight ladies, all titled, holding a similar official
position in the royal household, during the reign of a queen. [Eng.]

BEDCLOTHES
Bed"clothes`, n. pl.

Defn: Blankets, sheets, coverlets, etc., for a bed. Shak.

BEDCORD
Bed"cord`, n.

Defn: A cord or rope interwoven in a bedstead so as to support the
bed.

BEDDED
Bed"ded, a.

Defn: Provided with a bed; as, double-bedded room; placed or arranged
in a bed or beds.

BEDDING
Bed"ding, n. Etym: [AS. bedding, beding. See Bed.]

1. A bed and its furniture; the materials of a bed, whether for man
or beast; bedclothes; litter.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: The state or position of beds and layers.

BEDE
Bede, v. t. Etym: [See Bid, v. t.]

Defn: To pray; also, to offer; to proffer. [Obs.] R. of Gloucester.
Chaucer.

BEDE
Bede, n. (Mining)

Defn: A kind of pickax.

BEDECK
Be*deck", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedecked (p. pr. & vb. n. Bedecking.]

Defn: To deck, ornament, or adorn; to grace.
Bedecked with boughs, flowers, and garlands. Pennant.

BEDEGUAR; BEDEGAR
Bed"e*guar, Bed"e*gar, n. Etym: [F., fr. Per. bad-award, or bad-
awardag, prop., a kind of white thorn or thistle.]

Defn: A gall produced on rosebushes, esp. on the sweetbrier or
eglantine, by a puncture from the ovipositor of a gallfly (Rhodites
rosæ). It was once supposed to have medicinal properties.

BEDEHOUSE
Bede"house`

Defn: ,n.Same as Beadhouse.

BEDEL; BEDELL
Be"del, Be"dell

Defn: ,n.Same as Beadle.

BEDELRY
Be"del*ry, n.

Defn: Beadleship. [Obs.] Blount.

BEDEN
Bed"en, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Abyssinian or Arabian ibex (Capra Nubiana). It is probably
the wild goat of the Bible.

BEDESMAN
Bedes"man, n.

Defn: Same as Beadsman. [Obs.]

BEDEVIL
Be*dev"il, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedevilled (p. pr. & vb. n. Bedeviling
or Bedevilling.]

1. To throw into utter disorder and confusion, as if by the agency of
evil spirits; to bring under diabolical influence; to torment.
Bedeviled and used worse than St. Bartholomew. Sterne.

2. To spoil; to corrupt. Wright.

BEDEVILMENT
Be*dev"il*ment, n.

Defn: The state of being bedeviled; bewildering confusion; vexatious
trouble. [Colloq.]

BEDEW
Be*dew", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedewed (p. pr. & vb. n. Bedewing.]

Defn: To moisten with dew, or as with dew. "Falling tears his face
bedew." Dryden.

BEDEWER
Be*dew"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, bedews.

BEDEWY
Be*dew"y, a.

Defn: Moist with dew; dewy. [Obs.]
Night with her bedewy wings. A. Brewer.

BEDFELLOW
Bed"fel`low, n.

Defn: One who lies with another in the same bed; a person who shares
one's couch.

BEDFERE; BEDPHERE
Bed"fere` Bed"phere`, n. Etym: [Bed + AS. fera a companion.]

Defn: A bedfellow. [Obs.] Chapman.

BEDGOWN
Bed"gown`, n.

Defn: A nightgown.

BEDIGHT
Be*dight", v. t. [p. p. Bedight, Bedighted.]

Defn: To bedeck; to array or equip; to adorn. [Archaic] Milton.

BEDIM
Be*dim", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedimmed (p. pr. & vb. n. Bedimming.]

Defn: To make dim; to obscure or darken. Shak.

BEDIZEN
Be*diz"en, v. t.

Defn: To dress or adorn tawdrily or with false taste.
Remnants of tapestried hangings, . . . and shreds of pictures with
which he had bedizened his tatters. Sir W. Scott.

BEDIZENMENT
Be*diz"en*ment, n.

Defn: That which bedizens; the act of dressing, or the state of being
dressed, tawdrily.

BEDKEY
Bed"key`, n.

Defn: An instrument for tightening the parts of a bedstead.

BEDLAM
Bed"lam, n. Etym: [See Bethlehem.]

1. A place appropriated to the confinement and care of the insane; a
madhouse. Abp. Tillotson.

2. An insane person; a lunatic; a madman. [Obs.]
Let's get the bedlam to lead him. Shak.

3. Any place where uproar and confusion prevail.

BEDLAM
Bed"lam, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or fit for, a madhouse. "The bedlam, brainsick
duchess." Shak.

BEDLAMITE
Bed"lam*ite, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of a madhouse; a madman. "Raving bedlamites."
Beattie.

BEDMAKER
Bed"mak`er, n.

Defn: One who makes beds.

BED-MOLDING; BED-MOULDING
Bed"-mold`ing Bed"-mould`ing, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The molding of a cornice immediately below the corona. Oxf.
Gloss.

BEDOTE
Be*dote", v. t.

Defn: To cause to dote; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEDOUIN
Bed"ou*in, n. Etym: [F. bédouin, OF. béduin, fr. Ar. bedawi rural,
living in the desert, fr. badw desert, fr. bada to live in the
desert, to lead a nomadic life.]

Defn: One of the nomadic Arabs who live in tents, and are scattered
over Arabia, Syria, and northern Africa, esp. in the deserts.
 -- Bed"ou*in*ism (, n.

BEDOUIN
Bed"ou*in, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the Bedouins; nomad.

BEDPAN
Bed"pan`, n.

1. A pan for warming beds. Nares.

2. A shallow chamber vessel, so constructed that it can be used by a
sick person in bed.

BEDPHERE
Bed"phere`, n.

Defn: See Bedfere. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BEDPIECE; BEDPLATE
Bed"piece`, Bed"plate`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: The foundation framing or piece, by which the other parts are
supported and held in place; the bed; -- called also baseplate and
soleplate.

BEDPOST
Bed"post`, n.

1. One of the four standards that support a bedstead or the canopy
over a bedstead.

2. Anciently, a post or pin on each side of the bed to keep the
clothes from falling off. See Bedstaff. Brewer.

BEDQUILT
Bed"quilt`, n.

Defn: A quilt for a bed; a coverlet.

BEDRABBLE
Be*drab"ble, v. t.

Defn: To befoul with rain and mud; to drabble.

BEDRAGGLE
Be*drag"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedraggled (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bedraggling (.]

Defn: To draggle; to soil, as garments which, in walking, are
suffered to drag in dust, mud, etc. Swift.

BEDRENCH
Be*drench", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedrenched (p. pr. & vb. n.
Bedrenching.]

Defn: To drench; to saturate with moisture; to soak. Shak.

BEDRIBBLE
Be*drib"ble, v. t.

Defn: To dribble upon.

BEDRID; BEDRIDDEN
Bed"rid`, Bed"rid`den, a. Etym: [OE. bedrede, AS. bedreda, bedrida;
from bed, bedd, a bed or couch + ridda a rider; cf. OHG. pettiriso,
G. bettrise. See Bed, n., and Ride, v. i. ]

Defn: Confined to the bed by sickness or infirmity. "Her decrepit,
sick, and bedrid father." Shak. "The estate of a bedridden old
gentleman." Macaulay.

BEDRIGHT; BEDRITE
Bed"right` Bed"rite`, n. Etym: [Bed + right, rite.]

Defn: The duty or privilege of the marriage bed. Shak.

BEDRIZZLE
Be*driz"zle, v. t.

Defn: To drizzle upon.

BED ROCK
Bed" rock". (Mining)

Defn: The solid rock underlying superficial formations. Also Fig.

BEDROOM
Bed"room, n.

1. A room or apartment intended or used for a bed; a lodging room.

2. Room in a bed.

Note: [In this sense preferably bed room.]
Then by your side no bed room me deny. Shak.

BEDROP
Be*drop", v. t.

Defn: To sprinkle, as with drops.
The yellow carp, in scales bedropped with gold. Pope.

BEDRUG
Be*drug", v. t.

Defn: To drug abundantly or excessively.

BED SCREW
Bed" screw`.

1. (Naut.) A form of jack screw for lifting large bodies, and
assisting in launching.

2. A long screw formerly used to fasten a bedpost to one of the
adjacent side pieces.

BEDSIDE
Bed"side`, n.

Defn: The side of a bed.

BEDSITE
Bed"site`, n.

Defn: A recess in a room for a bed.
Of the three bedrooms, two have fireplaces, and all are of fair size,
with windows and bedsite well placed. Quart. Rev.

BEDSORE
Bed"sore`, n. (Med.)

Defn: A sore on the back or hips caused by lying for a long time in
bed.

BEDSPREAD
Bed"spread`, n.

Defn: A bedquilt; a counterpane; a coverlet. [U. S.]

BEDSTAFF
Bed"staff`, n.; pl. Bedstaves (.

Defn: "A wooden pin stuck anciently on the sides of the bedstead, to
hold the clothes from slipping on either side." Johnson.
Hostess, accommodate us with a bedstaff. B. Jonson.
Say there is no virtue in cudgels and bedstaves. Brome.

BEDSTEAD
Bed"stead, n. Etym: [Bed + stead a frame.]

Defn: A framework for supporting a bed.

BED STEPS
Bed" steps`.

Defn: Steps for mounting a bed of unusual height.

BEDSTOCK
Bed"stock, n.

Defn: The front or the back part of the frame of a bedstead. [Obs. or
Dial. Eng.]

BEDSTRAW
Bed"straw`, n.

1. Straw put into a bed. Bacon.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of slender herbs, usually with square stems, whorled
leaves, and small white flowers. Our Lady's bedstraw, which has
yellow flowers, is Galium verum.
 -- White bedstraw is G. mollugo.

BEDSWERVER
Bed"swerv`er, n.

Defn: One who swerves from and is unfaithful to the marriage vow.
[Poetic] Shak.

BEDTICK
Bed"tick`, n.

Defn: A tick or bag made of cloth, used for inclosing the materials
of a bed.

BEDTIME
Bed"time`, n.

Defn: The time to go to bed. Shak.

BEDUCK
Be*duck", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beducked (.]

Defn: To duck; to put the head under water; to immerse. "Deep himself
beducked." Spenser.

BEDUIN
Bed"uin, n.

Defn: See Bedouin.

BEDUNG
Be*dung", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedunged.]

Defn: To cover with dung, as for manuring; to bedaub or defile,
literally or figuratively. Bp. Hall.

BEDUST
Be*dust", v. t.

Defn: To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust. Sherwood.

BEDWARD
Bed"ward, adv.

Defn: Towards bed.

BEDWARF
Be*dwarf", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedwarfed.]

Defn: To make a dwarf of; to stunt or hinder the growth of; to dwarf.
Donne.

BEDYE
Be*dye", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bedyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Bedyeing.]

Defn: To dye or stain.
Briton fields with Sarazin blood bedyed. Spenser.

BEE
Bee,

Defn: p. p. of Be; -- used for been. [Obs.] Spenser.

BEE
Bee, n. Etym: [AS. beó; akin to D. bij and bije, Icel. b, Sw. & Dan.
bi, OHG. pini, G. biene, and perh. Ir. beach, Lith. bitis, Skr. bha.
sq. root97.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An insect of the order Hymenoptera, and family Apidæ (the
honeybees), or family Andrenidæ (the solitary bees.) See Honeybee.

Note: There are many genera and species. The common honeybee (Apis
mellifica) lives in swarms, each of which has its own queen, its
males or drones, and its very numerous workers, which are barren
females. Besides the A. mellifica there are other species and
varieties of honeybees, as the A. ligustica of Spain and Italy; the
A. Indica of India; the A. fasciata of Egypt. The bumblebee is a
species of Bombus. The tropical honeybees belong mostly to Melipoma
and Trigona.

2. A neighborly gathering of people who engage in united labor for
the benefit of an individual or family; as, a quilting bee; a husking
bee; a raising bee. [U. S.]
The cellar . . . was dug by a bee in a single day. S. G. Goodrich.

3. pl. Etym: [Prob. fr. AS. beáh ring, fr. b to bend. See 1st Bow.]
(Naut.)

Defn: Pieces of hard wood bolted to the sides of the bowsprit, to
reeve the fore-topmast stays through; -- called also bee blocks. Bee
beetle (Zoöl.), a beetle (Trichodes apiarius) parasitic in beehives.
 -- Bee bird (Zoöl.), a bird that eats the honeybee, as the European
flycatcher, and the American kingbird.
 -- Bee flower (Bot.), an orchidaceous plant of the genus Ophrys (O.
apifera), whose flowers have some resemblance to bees, flies, and
other insects.
 -- Bee fly (Zoöl.), a two winged fly of the family Bombyliidæ. Some
species, in the larval state, are parasitic upon bees.
 -- Bee garden, a garden or inclosure to set beehives in ; an apiary.
Mortimer.
 -- Bee glue, a soft, unctuous matter, with which bees cement the
combs to the hives, and close up the cells; -- called also propolis.
 -- Bee hawk (Zoöl.), the honey buzzard.
 -- Bee killer (Zoöl.), a large two-winged fly of the family Asilidæ
(esp. Trupanea apivora) which feeds upon the honeybee. See Robber
fly.
 -- Bee louse (Zoöl.), a minute, wingless, dipterous insect (Braula
cæca) parasitic on hive bees.
 -- Bee martin (Zoöl.), the kingbird (Tyrannus Carolinensis) which
occasionally feeds on bees.
 -- Bee moth (Zoöl.), a moth (Galleria cereana) whose larvæ feed on
honeycomb, occasioning great damage in beehives.
 -- Bee wolf (Zoöl.), the larva of the bee beetle. See Illust. of Bee
beetle.
 -- To have a bee in the head or in the bonnet. (a) To be choleric.
[Obs.] (b) To be restless or uneasy. B. Jonson. (c) To be full of
fancies; to be a little crazy. "She's whiles crack-brained, and has a
bee in her head." Sir W. Scott.

BEEBREAD
Bee"bread`, n.

Defn: A brown, bitter substance found in some of the cells of
honeycomb. It is made chiefly from the pollen of flowers, which is
collected by bees as food for their young.

BEECH
Beech, n.; pl. Beeches. Etym: [OE. beche, AS. b; akin to D. beuk,
OHG. buocha, G. buche, Icel. beyki, Dan. bög, Sw. bok, Russ. buk, L.
fagus, Gr. oak, to eat, Skr. bhaksh; the tree being named originally
from the esculent fruit. See Book, and cf. 7th Buck, Buckwheat.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A tree of the genus Fagus.

Note: It grows to a large size, having a smooth bark and thick
foliage, and bears an edible triangular nut, of which swine are fond.
The Fagus sylvatica is the European species, and the F. ferruginea
that of America. Beech drops (Bot.), a parasitic plant which grows on
the roots of beeches (Epiphegus Americana).
 -- Beech marten (Zoöl.), the stone marten of Europe (Mustela foina).
 -- Beech mast, the nuts of the beech, esp. as they lie under the
trees, in autumn.
 -- Beech oil, oil expressed from the mast or nuts of the beech tree.
 -- Cooper beech, a variety of the European beech with copper-
colored, shining leaves.

BEECHEN
Beech"en, a. Etym: [AS. b.]

Defn: Consisting, or made, of the wood or bark of the beech;
belonging to the beech. "Plain beechen vessels." Dryden.

BEECHNUT
Beech"nut`, n.

Defn: The nut of the beech tree.

BEECH TREE
Beech" tree`.

Defn: The beech.

BEECHY
Beech"y, a.

Defn: Of or relating to beeches.

BEE-EATER
Bee"-eat`er, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A bird of the genus Merops, that feeds on bees. The European
species (M. apiaster) is remarkable for its brilliant colors.
(b) An African bird of the genus Rhinopomastes.

BEEF
Beef, n. Etym: [OE. boef, befe, beef, OF. boef, buef, F. b, fr. L.
bos, bovis, ox; akin to Gr. , Skr. g cow, and E. cow. See 2d Cow.]

1. An animal of the genus Bos, especially the common species, B.
taurus, including the bull, cow, and ox, in their full grown state;
esp., an ox or cow fattened for food.

Note: [In this, which is the original sense, the word has a plural,
beeves (.]
A herd of beeves, fair oxen and fair kine. Milton.

2. The flesh of an ox, or cow, or of any adult bovine animal, when
slaughtered for food.

Note: [In this sense, the word has no plural.] "Great meals of beef."
Shak.

3. Applied colloquially to human flesh.

BEEF
Beef, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, beef. Beef tea, essence of
beef, or strong beef broth.

BEEFEATER
Beef"eat`er, n. Etym: [Beef + eater; prob. one who eats another's
beef, as his servant. Cf. AS. hlaf servant, properly a loaf eater.]

1. One who eats beef; hence, a large, fleshy person.

2. One of the yeomen of the guard, in England.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African bird of the genus Buphaga, which feeds on the larvæ
of botflies hatched under the skin of oxen, antelopes, etc. Two
species are known.

BEEFSTEAK
Beef"steak`, n.

Defn: A steak of beef; a slice of beef broiled or suitable for
broiling.

BEEF-WITTED
Beef"-wit`ted, n.

Defn: Stupid; dull. Shak.

BEEFWOOD
Beef"wood`, n.

Defn: An Australian tree (Casuarina), and its red wood, used for
cabinetwork; also, the trees Stenocarpus salignus of New South Wales,
and Banksia compar of Queensland.

BEEFY
Beef"y, a.

Defn: Having much beef; of the nature of beef; resembling beef;
fleshy.

BEEHIVE
Bee"hive`, n.

Defn: A hive for a swarm of bees. Also used figuratively.

Note: A common and typical form of beehive was a domeshaped inverted
basket, whence certain ancient Irish and Scotch architectural remains
are called beehive houses.

BEEHOUSE
Bee"house`, n.

Defn: A house for bees; an apiary.

BEE LARKSPUR
Bee" lark`spur.

Defn: (Bot.) See Larkspur.

BEELD
Beeld, n.

Defn: Same as Beild. Fairfax.

BEE LINE
Bee" line`.

Defn: The shortest line from one place to another, like that of a bee
to its hive when loaded with honey; an air line. "A bee line for the
brig." Kane.

BEELZEBUB
Be*el"ze*bub, n.

Defn: The title of a heathen deity to whom the Jews ascribed the
sovereignty of the evil spirits; hence, the Devil or a devil. See
Baal.

BEEM
Beem, n. Etym: [AS. b, b.]

Defn: A trumpet. [Obs.]

BEEMASTER
Bee"mas`ter, n.

Defn: One who keeps bees.

BEEN
Been. Etym: [OE. beon, ben, bin, p. p. of been, beon, to be. See Be.]

Defn: The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr.
tense plural of Be. See 1st Bee.
Assembled been a senate grave and stout. Fairfax.

BEER
Beer, n. Etym: [OE. beor, ber, AS. beór; akin to Fries. biar, Icel.
bj, OHG. bior, D. & G. bier, and possibly E. brew. *93, See Brew.]

1. A fermented liquor made from any malted grain, but commonly from
barley malt, with hops or some other substance to impart a bitter
flavor.

Note: Beer has different names, as small beer, ale, porter, brown
stout, lager beer, according to its strength, or other qualities. See
Ale.

2. A fermented extract of the roots and other parts of various
plants, as spruce, ginger, sassafras, etc. Small beer, weak beer;
(fig.) insignificant matters. "To suckle fools, and chronicle small
beer." Shak.

BEEREGAR
Beer"e*gar, n. Etym: [Beer + eager.]

Defn: Sour beer. [Obs.]

BEERHOUSE
Beer"house`, n.

Defn: A house where malt liquors are sold; an alehouse.

BEERINESS
Beer"i*ness, n.

Defn: Beery condition.

BEERY
Beer"y, a.

Defn: Of or resembling beer; affected by beer; maudlin.

BEESTINGS
Beest"ings, n.

Defn: Same as Biestings.

BEESWAX
Bees"wax`, n.

Defn: The wax secreted by bees, and of which their cells are
constructed.

BEESWING
Bees"wing`, n.

Defn: The second crust formed in port and some other wines after long
keeping. It consists of pure, shining scales of tartar, supposed to
resemble the wing of a bee.

BEET
Beet, n. Etym: [AS. bete, from L. beta.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A biennial plant of the genus Beta, which produces an edible
root the first year and seed the second year.

2. The root of plants of the genus Beta, different species and
varieties of which are used for the table, for feeding stock, or in
making sugar.

Note: There are many varieties of the common beet (Beta vulgaris).
The Old "white beet", cultivated for its edible leafstalks, is a
distinct species (Beta Cicla).

BEETE; BETE
Beete, Bete, v. t. Etym: [AS. b to mend. See Better.]

1. To mend; to repair. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To renew or enkindle (a fire). [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEETLE
Bee"tle, n. Etym: [OE. betel, AS. bitl, b, mallet, hammer, fr. beátan
to beat. See Beat, v. t.]

1. A heavy mallet, used to drive wedges, beat pavements, etc.

2. A machine in which fabrics are subjected to a hammering process
while passing over rollers, as in cotton mills; -- called also
beetling machine. Knight.

BEETLE
Bee"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beetled; p. pr. & vb. n. Beetling.]

1. To beat with a heavy mallet.

2. To finish by subjecting to a hammering process in a beetle or
beetling machine; as, to beetle cotton goods.

BEETLE
Bee"tle, n. Etym: [OE. bityl, bittle, AS. b, fr. b to bite. See Bite,
v. t.]

Defn: Any insect of the order Coleoptera, having four wings, the
outer pair being stiff cases for covering the others when they are
folded up. See Coleoptera. Beetle mite (Zoöl.), one of many species
of mites, of the family Oribatidæ, parasitic on beetles.
 -- Black beetle, the common large black cockroach (Blatta
orientalis).

BEETLE
Bee"tle, v. i. Etym: [See Beetlebrowed.]

Defn: To extend over and beyond the base or support; to overhang; to
jut.
To the dreadful summit of the cliff That beetles o'er his base into
the sea. Shak.
Each beetling rampart, and each tower sublime. Wordsworth.

BEETLE BROW
Bee"tle brow`.

Defn: An overhanging brow.

BEETLE-BROWED
Bee"tle-browed`, a. Etym: [OE. bitelbrowed; cf. OE. bitel, adj.,
sharp, projecting, n., a beetle. See Beetle an insect.]

Defn: Having prominent, overhanging brows; hence, lowering or sullen.

Note: The earlier meaning was, "Having bushy or overhanging
eyebrows."

BEETLEHEAD
Bee"tle*head`, n. Etym: [Beetle a mallet + head.]

1. A stupid fellow; a blockhead. Sir W. Scott.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black-bellied plover, or bullhead (Squatarola helvetica).
See Plover.

BEETLE-HEADED
Bee"tle-head`ed, a.

Defn: Dull; stupid. Shak.

BEETLESTOCK
Bee"tle*stock`, n.

Defn: The handle of a beetle.

BEET RADISH
Beet" rad`ish.

Defn: Same as Beetrave.

BEETRAVE
Beet"rave`, n. Etym: [F. betterave; bette beet + rave radish.]

Defn: The common beet (Beta vulgaris).

BEEVE
Beeve, n. Etym: [Formed from beeves, pl. of beef.]

Defn: A beef; a beef creature.
They would knock down the first beeve they met with. W. Irving.

BEEVES
Beeves, n.

Defn: ; plural of Beef, the animal.

BEFALL
Be*fall", v. t. [imp. Befell; p. p. Befallen; p. pr. & vb. n.
Befalling.] Etym: [AS. befeallan; pref. be- + feallan to fall.]

Defn: To happen to.
I beseech your grace that I may know The worst that may befall me.
Shak.

BEFALL
Be*fall", v. i.

Defn: To come to pass; to happen.
I have revealed . . . the discord which befell. Milton.

BEFIT
Be*fit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Befitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Befitting.]

Defn: To be suitable to; to suit; to become.
That name best befits thee. Milton.

BEFITTING
Be*fit"ting, a.

Defn: Suitable; proper; becoming; fitting.

BEFITTINGLY
Be*fit"ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In a befitting manner; suitably.

BEFLATTER
Be*flat"ter, v. t.

Defn: To flatter excessively.

BEFLOWER
Be*flow"er, v. t.

Defn: To besprinkle or scatter over with, or as with, flowers.
Hobbes.

BEFOG
Be*fog", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Befogged; p. pr. & vb. n. Befogging.]

1. To involve in a fog; -- mostly as a participle or part. adj.

2. Hence: To confuse; to mystify.

BEFOOL
Be*fool", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Befooled; p. pr. & vb. n. Befooling.]
Etym: [OE. befolen; pref. be- + fol fool.]

1. To fool; to delude or lead into error; to infatuate; to deceive.
This story . . . contrived to befool credulous men. Fuller.

2. To cause to behave like a fool; to make foolish. "Some befooling
drug." G. Eliot.

BEFORE
Be*fore", prep. Etym: [OE. beforen, biforen, before, AS. beforan;
pref. be- + foran, fore, before. See Be-, and Fore.]

1. In front of; preceding in space; ahead of; as, to stand before the
fire; before the house.
His angel, who shall go Before them in a cloud and pillar of fire.
Milton.

2. Preceding in time; earlier than; previously to; anterior to the
time when; -- sometimes with the additional idea of purpose; in order
that.
Before Abraham was, I am. John viii. 58.
Before this treatise can become of use, two points are necessary.
Swift.

Note: Formerly before, in this sense, was followed by that. "Before
that Philip called thee . . . I saw thee." John i. 48.

3. An advance of; farther onward, in place or time.
The golden age . . . is before us. Carlyle.

4. Prior or preceding in dignity, order, rank, right, or worth;
rather than.
He that cometh after me is preferred before me. John i. 15.
The eldest son is before the younger in succession. Johnson.

5. In presence or sight of; face to face with; facing.
Abraham bowed down himself before the people. Gen. xxiii. 12.
Wherewith shall I come before the Lord Micah vi. 6.

6. Under the cognizance or jurisdiction of.
If a suit be begun before an archdeacon. Ayliffe.

7. Open for; free of access to; in the power of.
The world was all before them where to choose. Milton.
Before the mast (Naut.), as a common sailor, -- because the sailors
live in the forecastle, forward of the foremast.
 -- Before the wind (Naut.), in the direction of the wind and by its
impulse; having the wind aft.

BEFORE
Be*fore", adv.

1. On the fore part; in front, or in the direction of the front; --
opposed to in the rear.
The battle was before and behind. 2 Chron. xiii. 14.

2. In advance. "I come before to tell you." Shak.

3. In time past; previously; already.
You tell me, mother, what I knew before. Dryden.

4. Earlier; sooner than; until then.
When the butt is out, we will drink water; not a drop before. Shak.

Note: Before is often used in self-explaining compounds; as, before-
cited, before-mentioned; beforesaid.

BEFOREHAND
Be*fore"hand`, adv. Etym: [Before + hand.]

1. In a state of anticipation ore preoccupation; in advance; -- often
followed by with.
Agricola . . . resolves to be beforehand with the danger. Milton.
The last cited author has been beforehand with me. Addison.

2. By way of preparation, or preliminary; previously; aforetime.
They may be taught beforehand the skill of speaking. Hooker.

BEFOREHAND
Be*fore"hand`, a.

Defn: In comfortable circumstances as regards property; forehanded.
Rich and much beforehand. Bacon.

BEFORETIME
Be*fore"time`, adv.

Defn: Formerly; aforetime.
[They] dwelt in their tents, as beforetime. 2 Kings xiii. 5.

BEFORTUNE
Be*for"tune, v. t.

Defn: To befall. [Poetic]
I wish all good befortune you. Shak.

BEFOUL
Be*foul", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Befouled; p. pr. & vb. n. Befouling.]
Etym: [Cf. AS. bef; pref. be- + f to foul. See Foul, a.]

1. To make foul; to soil.

2. To entangle or run against so as to impede motion.

BEFRIEND
Be*friend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Befriended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Befriending.]

Defn: To act as a friend to; to favor; to aid, benefit, or
countenance.
By the darkness befriended. Longfellow.

BEFRIENDMENT
Be*friend"ment, n.

Defn: Act of befriending. [R.]

BEFRILL
Be*frill", v. t.

Defn: To furnish or deck with a frill.

BEFRINGE
Be*fringe", v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a fringe; to form a fringe upon; to adorn as
with fringe. Fuller.

BEFUDDLE
Be*fud"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Befuddled]

Defn: To becloud and confuse, as with liquor.

BEG
Beg, n. Etym: [Turk. beg, pronounced bay. Cf. Bey, Begum.]

Defn: A title of honor in Turkey and in some other parts of the East;
a bey.

BEG
Beg, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Begged; p. pr. & vb. n. Begging.] Etym: [OE.
beggen, perh. fr. AS. bedecian (akin to Goth. bedagwa beggar), biddan
to ask. (Cf. Bid, v. t.); or cf. beghard, beguin.]

1. To ask earnestly for; to entreat or supplicate for; to beseech.
I do beg your good will in this case. Shak.
[Joseph] begged the body of Jesus. Matt. xxvii. 58.

Note: Sometimes implying deferential and respectful, rather than
earnest, asking; as, I beg your pardon; I beg leave to disagree with
you.

2. To ask for as a charity, esp. to ask for habitually or from house
to house.
Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging
bread. Ps. xxxvii. 25.

3. To make petition to; to entreat; as, to beg a person to grant a
favor.

4. To take for granted; to assume without proof.

5. (Old Law)

Defn: To ask to be appointed guardian for, or to ask to have a
guardian appointed for.
Else some will beg thee, in the court of wards. Harrington.
Hence: To beg (one) for a fool, to take him for a fool. I beg to, is
an elliptical expression for I beg leave to; as, I beg to inform you.
 -- To bag the question, to assume that which was to be proved in a
discussion, instead of adducing the proof or sustaining the point by
argument.
 -- To go a-begging, a figurative phrase to express the absence of
demand for something which elsewhere brings a price; as, grapes are
so plentiful there that they go a-begging.

Syn.
 -- To Beg, Ask, Request. To ask (not in the sense of inquiring) is
the generic term which embraces all these words. To request is only a
polite mode of asking. To beg, in its original sense, was to ask with
earnestness, and implied submission, or at least deference. At
present, however, in polite life, beg has dropped its original
meaning, and has taken the place of both ask and request, on the
ground of its expressing more of deference and respect. Thus, we beg
a person's acceptance of a present; we beg him to favor us with his
company; a tradesman begs to announce the arrival of new goods, etc.
Crabb remarks that, according to present usage, "we can never talk of
asking a person's acceptance of a thing, or of asking him to do us a
favor." This can be more truly said of usage in England than in
America.

BEG
Beg, v. i.

Defn: To ask alms or charity, especially to ask habitually by the
wayside or from house to house; to live by asking alms.
I can not dig; to beg I am ashamed. Luke xvi. 3.

BEGA
Be"ga, n.

Defn: See Bigha.

BEGEM
Be*gem", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Begemmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Begemming.]

Defn: To adorn with gems, or as with gems.
Begemmed with dewdrops. Sir W. Scott.
Those lonely realms bright garden isles begem. Shelley.

BEGET
Be*get", v. t. [imp. Begot, (Archaic) Begat (; p. p. Begot, Begotten
(; p. pr. & vb. n. Begetting.] Etym: [OE. bigiten, bigeten, to get,
beget, AS. begitan to get; pref. be- + gitan. See Get, v. t. ]

1. To procreate, as a father or sire; to generate; -- commonly said
of the father.
Yet they a beauteous offspring shall beget. Milton.

2. To get (with child.) [Obs.] Shak.

3. To produce as an effect; to cause to exist.
Love is begot by fancy. Granville.

BEGETTER
Be*get"ter, n.

Defn: One who begets; a father.

BEGGABLE
Beg"ga*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being begged.

BEGGAR
Beg"gar, n. Etym: [OE. beggere, fr. beg.]

1. One who begs; one who asks or entreats earnestly, or with
humility; a petitioner.

2. One who makes it his business to ask alms.

3. One who is dependent upon others for support; -- a contemptuous or
sarcastic use.

4. One who assumes in argument what he does not prove. Abp.
Tillotson.

BEGGAR
Beg"gar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beggared; p. pr. & vb. n. Beggaring.]

1. To reduce to beggary; to impoverish; as, he had beggared himself.
Milton.

2. To cause to seem very poor and inadequate.
It beggared all description. Shak.

BEGGARHOOD
Beg"gar*hood, n.

Defn: The condition of being a beggar; also, the class of beggars.

BEGGARISM
Beg"gar*ism, n.

Defn: Beggary. [R.]

BEGGARLINESS
Beg"gar*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being beggarly; meanness.

BEGGARLY
Beg"gar*ly, a.

1. In the condition of, or like, a beggar; suitable for a beggar;
extremely indigent; poverty-stricken; mean; poor; contemptible. "A
bankrupt, beggarly fellow." South. "A beggarly fellowship." Swift.
"Beggarly elements." Gal. iv. 9.

2. Produced or occasioned by beggary. [Obs.]
Beggarly sins, that is, those sins which idleness and beggary usually
betray men to; such as lying, flattery, stealing, and dissimulation.
Jer. Taylor.

BEGGARLY
Beg"gar*ly, adv.

Defn: In an indigent, mean, or despicable manner; in the manner of a
beggar.

BEGGAR'S LICE
Beg"gar's lice`. (Bot.)

Defn: The prickly fruit or seed of certain plants (as some species of
Echinospermum and Cynoglossum) which cling to the clothing of those
who brush by them.

BEGGAR'S TICKS
Beg"gar's ticks`.

Defn: The bur marigold (Bidens) and its achenes, which are armed with
barbed awns, and adhere to clothing and fleeces with unpleasant
tenacity.

BEGGARY
Beg"gar*y, n. Etym: [OE. beggerie. See Beggar, n.]

1. The act of begging; the state of being a beggar; mendicancy;
extreme poverty.

2. Beggarly appearance. [R.]
The freedom and the beggary of the old studio. Thackeray.

Syn.
 -- Indigence; want; penury; mendicancy.

BEGGARY
Beg"gar*y, a.

Defn: Beggarly. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BEGGESTERE
Beg"ge*stere, n. Etym: [Beg + -ster.]

Defn: A beggar. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEGHARD; BEGUARD
Be*ghard" Be*guard", n. Etym: [F. bégard, béguard; cf. G. beghard,
LL. Beghardus, Begihardus, Begardus. Prob. from the root of beguine +
-ard or -hard. See Beguine.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of an association of religious laymen living in imitation
of the Beguines. They arose in the thirteenth century, were afterward
subjected to much persecution, and were suppressed by Innocent X. in
1650. Called also Beguins.

BEGILD
Be*gild", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Begilded or Begilt.]

Defn: To gild. B. Jonson.

BEGIN
Be*gin", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Began, Begun; p. pr. & vb. n.
Beginning.] Etym: [AS. beginnan (akin to OS. biginnan, D. & G.
beginnen, OHG. biginnan, Goth., du-ginnan, Sw. begynna, Dan.
begynde); pref. be- + an assumed ginnan. sq. root31. See Gin to
begin.]

1. To have or commence an independent or first existence; to take
rise; to commence.
Vast chain of being! which from God began. Pope.

2. To do the first act or the first part of an action; to enter upon
or commence something new, as a new form or state of being, or course
of action; to take the first step; to start. "Tears began to flow."
Dryden.
When I begin, I will also make an end. 1 Sam. iii. 12.

BEGIN
Be*gin", v. t.

1. To enter on; to commence.
Ye nymphs of Solyma ! begin the song. Pope.

2. To trace or lay the foundation of; to make or place a beginning
of.
The apostle begins our knowledge in the creatures, which leads us to
the knowledge of God. Locke.

Syn.
 -- To commence; originate; set about; start.

BEGIN
Be*gin", n.

Defn: Beginning. [Poetic & Obs.] Spenser.

BEGINNER
Be*gin"ner, n.

Defn: One who begins or originates anything. Specifically: A young or
inexperienced practitioner or student; a tyro.
A sermon of a new beginner. Swift.

BEGINNING
Be*gin"ning, n.

1. The act of doing that which begins anything; commencement of an
action, state, or space of time; entrance into being or upon a
course; the first act, effort, or state of a succession of acts or
states.
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. Gen. i. 1.

2. That which begins or originates something; the first cause;
origin; source.
I am . . . the beginning and the ending. Rev. i. 8.

3. That which is begun; a rudiment or element.
Mighty things from small beginnings grow. Dryden.

4. Enterprise. "To hinder our beginnings." Shak.

Syn.
 -- Inception; prelude; opening; threshold; origin; outset;
foundation.

BEGIRD
Be*gird", v. t. [imp. Begirt, Begirded; p. p. Begirt; p. pr. & vb. n.
Begirding.] Etym: [AS. begyrdan (akin to Goth. bigairdan); pref. be-
+ gyrdan to gird.]

1. To bind with a band or girdle; to gird.

2. To surround as with a band; to encompass.

BEGIRDLE
Be*gir"dle, v. t.

Defn: To surround as with a girdle.

BEGIRT
Be*girt", v. t.

Defn: To encompass; to begird. Milton.

BEGLERBEG
Beg"ler*beg`, n. Etym: [Turk. beglerbeg, fr. beg, pl. begler. See
Beg, n.]

Defn: The governor of a province of the Ottoman empire, next in
dignity to the grand vizier.

BEGNAW
Be*gnaw", v. t. [p. p. Begnawed, (R.) Begnawn (.] Etym: [AS.
begnagan; pref. be- + gnagan to gnaw.]

Defn: To gnaw; to eat away; to corrode.
The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul. Shak.

BEGOD
Be*god", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Begodded.]

Defn: To exalt to the dignity of a god; to deify. [Obs.] "Begodded
saints." South.

BEGOHM
Beg"ohm`, n. (Elec.)

Defn: A unit of resistance equal to one billion ohms, or one thousand
megohms.

BEGONE
Be*gone", interj. Etym: [Be, v. i. + gone, p. p.]

Defn: Go away; depart; get you gone.

BEGONE
Be*gone", p. p. Etym: [OE. begon, AS. bigan; pref. be- + gan to go.]

Defn: Surrounded; furnished; beset; environed (as in woe-begone).
[Obs.] Gower. Chaucer.

BEGONIA
Be*go"ni*a, n. Etym: [From Michel Begon, a promoter of botany.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, mostly of tropical America, many species of
which are grown as ornamental plants. The leaves are curiously one-
sided, and often exhibit brilliant colors.

BEGORE
Be*gore", v. t.

Defn: To besmear with gore.

BEGOT
Be*got",

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Beget.

BEGOTTEN
Be*got"ten,

Defn: p. p. of Beget.

BEGRAVE
Be*grave", v. t. Etym: [Pref. be- + grave; akin to G. begraben, Goth.
bigraban to dig a ditch around.]

Defn: To bury; also, to engrave. [Obs.] Gower.

BEGREASE
Be*grease", v. t.

Defn: To soil or daub with grease or other oily matter.

BEGRIME
Be*grime", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Begrimed; p. pr. & vb. n. Begriming.]

Defn: To soil with grime or dirt deeply impressed or rubbed in.
Books falling to pieces and begrimed with dust. Macaulay.

BEGRIMER
Be*grim"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, begrimes.

BEGRUDGE
Be*grudge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Begrudged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Begrudging.]

Defn: To grudge; to envy the possession of.

BEGUILE
Be*guile", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beguiled; p. pr. & vb. n. Beguiling.]

1. To delude by guile, artifice, or craft; to deceive or impose on,
as by a false statement; to lure.
The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat. Gen. iii. 13.

2. To elude, or evade by craft; to foil. [Obs.]
When misery could beguile the tyrant's rage. Shak.

3. To cause the time of to pass without notice; to relieve the tedium
or weariness of; to while away; to divert.
Ballads . . . to beguile his incessant wayfaring. W. Irving.

Syn.
 -- To delude; deceive; cheat; insnare; mislead; amuse; divert;
entertain.

BEGUILEMENT
Be*guile"ment, n.

Defn: The act of beguiling, or the state of being beguiled.

BEGUILER
Be*guil"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, beguiles.

BEGUILING
Be*guil"ing, a.

Defn: Alluring by guile; deluding; misleading; diverting.
 -- Be*guil"ing*ly, adv.

BEGUIN
Be`guin", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Beghard.

BEGUINAGE
Be`gui`nage", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A collection of small houses surrounded by a wall and occupied
by a community of Beguines.

BEGUINE
Be`guine", n. Etym: [F. béguine; LL. beguina, beghina; fr. Lambert le
Bègue (the Stammerer) the founder of the order. (Du Cange.)]

Defn: A woman belonging to one of the religious and charitable
associations or communities in the Netherlands, and elsewhere, whose
members live in beguinages and are not bound by perpetual vows.

BEGUM
Be"gum, n. Etym: [Per., fr. Turk., perh. properly queen mother, fr.
Turk. beg (see Beg, n.) + Ar. umm mother.]

Defn: In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank. Malcom.

BEGUN
Be*gun", p. p.

Defn: of Begin.

BEHALF
Be*half", n. Etym: [OE. on-behalve in the name of, bihalven by the
side of, fr. AS. healf half, also side, part: akin to G. halb half,
halber on account of. See Be-, and Half, n.]

Defn: Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support;
defense; vindication.
In behalf of his mistress's beauty. Sir P. Sidney.
Against whom he had contracted some prejudice in behalf of his
nation. Clarendon.
In behalf of, in the interest of.
 -- On behalf of, on account of; on the part of.

BEHAPPEN
Be*hap"pen, v. t.

Defn: To happen to. [Obs.]

BEHAVE
Be*have", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Behaved; p. pr. & vb. n. Behaving.]
Etym: [AS. behabban to surround, restrain, detain (akin to G. gehaben
(obs.) to have, sich gehaben to behave or carry one's self); pref.
be- + habban to have. See Have, v. t. ]

1. To manage or govern in point of behavior; to discipline; to
handle; to restrain. [Obs.]
He did behave his anger ere 't was spent. Shak.

2. To carry; to conduct; to comport; to manage; to bear; -- used
reflexively.
Those that behaved themselves manfully. 2 Macc. ii. 21.

BEHAVE
Be*have", v. i.

Defn: To act; to conduct; to bear or carry one's self; as, to behave
well or ill.

Note: This verb is often used colloquially without an adverb of
manner; as, if he does not behave, he will be punished. It is also
often applied to inanimate objects; as, the ship behaved splendidly.

BEHAVIOR
Be*hav"ior, n.

Defn: Manner of behaving, whether good or bad; mode of conducting
one's self; conduct; deportment; carriage; -- used also of inanimate
objects; as, the behavior of a ship in a storm; the behavior of the
magnetic needle.
A gentleman that is very singular in his behavior. Steele.
To be upon one's good behavior, To be put upon one's good behavior,
to be in a state of trial, in which something important depends on
propriety of conduct.
 -- During good behavior, while (or so long as) one conducts one's
self with integrity and fidelity or with propriety.

Syn.
 -- Bearing; demeanor; manner.
 -- Behavior, Conduct. Behavior is the mode in which we have or bear
ourselves in the presence of others or toward them; conduct is the
mode of our carrying ourselves forward in the concerns of life.
Behavior respects our manner of acting in particular cases; conduct
refers to the general tenor of our actions. We may say of soldiers,
that their conduct had been praiseworthy during the whole campaign,
and their behavior admirable in every instance when they met the
enemy.

BEHEAD
Be*head", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beheaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Beheading.]
Etym: [OE. bihefden, AS. beheáfdian; pref. be- + heáfod head. See
Head.]

Defn: To sever the head from; to take off the head of.

BEHEADAL
Be*head"al

Defn: ,n.Beheading. [Modern]

BEHELD
Be*held",

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Behold.

BEHEMOTH
Be"he*moth, n. Etym: [Heb. behem, fr. Egyptian P-ehe-maut
hippopotamus.]

Defn: An animal, probably the hippopotamus, described in Job xl. 15-
24.

BEHEN; BEHN
Be"hen, Behn, n. Etym: [Per. & Ar. bahman, behmen, an herb, whose
leaves resemble ears of corn, saffron.] (Bot.)
(a) The Centaurea behen, or saw-leaved centaury.
(b) The Cucubalus behen, or bladder campion, now called Silene
inflata.
(c) The Statice limonium, or sea lavender.

BEHEST
Be*hest", n. Etym: [OE. biheste promise, command, AS. beh promise;
pref. be- + h command. See Hest, Hight.]

1. That which is willed or ordered; a command; a mandate; an
injunction.
To do his master's high behest. Sir W. Scott.

2. A vow; a promise. [Obs.]
The time is come that I should send it her, if I keep the behest that
I have made. Paston.

BEHEST
Be*hest", v. t.

Defn: To vow. [Obs.] Paston.

BEHETE
Be*hete", v. t.

Defn: See Behight. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEHIGHT
Be*hight", v. t. [imp. Behight; p. p. Behight, Behoten.] Etym: [OE.
bihaten, AS. behatan to vow, promise; pref. be- + hatan to call,
command. See Hight, v.] [Obs. in all its senses.]

1. To promise; to vow.
Behight by vow unto the chaste Minerve. Surrey.

2. To give in trust; to commit; to intrust.
The keys are to thy hand behight. Spenser.

3. To adjudge; to assign by authority.
The second was to Triamond behight. Spenser.

4. To mean, or intend.
More than heart behighteth. Mir. for Mag.

5. To consider or esteem to be; to declare to be.
All the lookers-on him dead behight. Spenser.

6. To call; to name; to address.
Whom . . . he knew and thus behight. Spenser.

7. To command; to order.
He behight those gates to be unbarred. Spenser.

BEHIGHT
Be*hight", n.

Defn: A vow; a promise. [Obs.] Surrey.

BEHIND
Be*hind", prep. Etym: [AS. behindan; pref. be- + hindan. See Hind,
a.]

1. On the side opposite the front or nearest part; on the back side
of; at the back of; on the other side of; as, behind a door; behind a
hill.
A tall Brabanter, behind whom I stood. Bp. Hall.

2. Left after the departure of, whether this be by removing to a
distance or by death.
A small part of what he left behind him. Pope.

3. Left a distance by, in progress of improvement Hence: Inferior to
in dignity, rank, knowledge, or excellence, or in any achievement.
I was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles. 2 Cor. xi. 5.

BEHIND
Be*hind", adv.

1. At the back part; in the rear. "I shall not lag behind." Milton.

2. Toward the back part or rear; backward; as, to look behind.

3. Not yet brought forward, produced, or exhibited to view; out of
sight; remaining.
We can not be sure that there is no evidence behind. Locke.

4. Backward in time or order of succession; past.
Forgetting those things which are behind. Phil. ii. 13.

5. After the departure of another; as, to stay behind.
Leave not a rack behind. Shak.

BEHIND
Be*hind", n.

Defn: The backside; the rump. [Low]

BEHINDHAND
Be*hind"hand`, adv. & a. Etym: [Behind + hand.]

1. In arrears financially; in a state where expenditures have
exceeded the receipt of funds.

2. In a state of backwardness, in respect to what is seasonable or
appropriate, or as to what should have been accomplished; not equally
forward with some other person or thing; dilatory; backward; late;
tardy; as, behindhand in studies or in work.
In this also [dress] the country are very much behindhand. Addison.

BEHITHER
Be*hith"er, prep.

Defn: On this side of. [Obs.]
Two miles behither Clifden. Evelyn.

BEHOLD
Be*hold", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beheld ( (p. p. formerly Beholden (,
now used only as a p. a.); p. pr. & vb. n. Beholding.] Etym: [OE.
bihalden, biholden, AS. behealdan to hold, have in sight; pref. be- +
healdan to hold, keep; akin to G. behalten to hold, keep. See Hold.]

Defn: To have in sight; to see clearly; to look at; to regard with
the eyes.
When he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. Num. xxi. 9.
Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. John.
i. 29.

Syn.
 -- To scan; gaze; regard; descry; view; discern.

BEHOLD
Be*hold", v. i.

Defn: To direct the eyes to, or fix them upon, an object; to look; to
see.
And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne, . . . a lamb as it
had been slain. Rev. v. 6.

BEHOLDEN
Be*hold"en, p. a. Etym: [Old p. p. of behold, used in the primitive
sense of the simple verb hold.]

Defn: Obliged; bound in gratitude; indebted.
But being so beholden to the Prince. Tennyson.

BEHOLDER
Be*hold"er, n.

Defn: One who beholds; a spectator.

BEHOLDING
Be*hold"ing, a.

Defn: Obliged; beholden. [Obs.]
I was much bound and beholding to the right reverend father. Robynson
(More's Utopia).
So much hath Oxford been beholding to her nephews, or sister's
children. Fuller.

BEHOLDING
Be*hold"ing, n.

Defn: The act of seeing; sight; also, that which is beheld. Shak.

BEHOLDINGNESS
Be*hold"ing*ness, n.

Defn: , The state of being obliged or beholden. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

BEHOOF
Be*hoof", n. Etym: [OE. to bihove for the use of, AS. beh advantage,
a word implied in beh necessary; akin to Sw. behof, Dan. behov, G.
behuf, and E. heave, the root meaning to seize, hence the meanings
"to hold, make use of." See Heave, v. t.]

Defn: Advantage; profit; benefit; interest; use.
No mean recompense it brings To your behoof. Milton.

BEHOOVABLE
Be*hoov"a*ble, a.

Defn: Supplying need; profitable; advantageous. [Obs.] Udall.

BEHOOVE
Be*hoove", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Behooved; p. pr. & vb. n. Behooving.]
Etym: [OE. bihoven, behoven, AS. beh to have need of, fr. beh. See
Behoof.]

Defn: To be necessary for; to be fit for; to be meet for, with
respect to necessity, duty, or convenience; -- mostly used
impersonally.
And thus it behooved Christ to suffer. Luke xxiv. 46.
[Also written behove.]

BEHOOVE
Be*hoove", v. i.

Defn: To be necessary, fit, or suitable; to befit; to belong as due.
Chaucer.

BEHOOVE
Be*hoove", n.

Defn: Advantage; behoof. [Obs.]
It shall not be to his behoove. Gower.

BEHOOVEFUL
Be*hoove"ful, a.

Defn: Advantageous; useful; profitable. [Archaic] -- Be*hoove"ful*ly,
adv.
 -- Be*hoove"ful*ness, n. [Archaic]

BEHOVE
Be*hove", v.

Defn: , and derivatives. See Behoove, & c.

BEHOVELY
Be*hove"ly, a. & adv.

Defn: Useful, or usefully. [Obs.]

BEHOWL
Be*howl", v. t.

Defn: To howl at. [Obs.]
The wolf behowls the moon. Shak.

BEIGE
Beige, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Debeige.

BEILD
Beild, n. Etym: [Prob. from the same root as build, v. t.]

Defn: A place of shelter; protection; refuge. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
[Also written bield and beeld.]
The random beild o' clod or stane. Burns.

BEING
Be"ing, p. pr. from Be.

Defn: Existing.

Note: Being was formerly used where we now use having. "Being to go
to a ball in a few days." Miss Edgeworth.

Note: In modern usage, is, are, was or were being, with a past
participle following (as built, made, etc.) indicates the process
toward the completed result expressed by the participle. The form is
or was building, in this passive signification, is idiomatic, and, if
free from ambiguity, is commonly preferable to the modern is or was
being built. The last form of speech is, however, sufficiently
authorized by approved writers. The older expression was is, or was,
a-building or in building.
A man who is being strangled. Lamb.
While the article on Burns was being written. Froude.
Fresh experience is always being gained. Jowett (Thucyd. )

BEING
Be"ing, n.

1. Existence, as opposed to nonexistence; state or sphere of
existence.
In Him we live, and move, and have our being. Acts xvii. 28.

2. That which exists in any form, whether it be material or
spiritual, actual or ideal; living existence, as distinguished from a
thing without life; as, a human being; spiritual beings.
What a sweet being is an honest mind ! Beau. & Fl.
A Being of infinite benevolence and power. Wordsworth.

3. Lifetime; mortal existence. [Obs.]
Claudius, thou Wast follower of his fortunes in his being. Webster
(1654).

4. An abode; a cottage. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
It was a relief to dismiss them [Sir Roger's servants] into little
beings within my manor. Steele.

BEING
Be"ing, adv.

Defn: Since; inasmuch as. [Obs. or Colloq.]
And being you have Declined his means, you have increased his malice.
Beau. & Fl.

BEJADE
Be*jade", v. t.

Defn: To jade or tire. [Obs.] Milton.

BEJAPE
Be*jape", v. t.

Defn: To jape; to laugh at; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEJAUNDICE
Be*jaun"dice, v. t.

Defn: To infect with jaundice.

BEJEWEL
Be*jew"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bejeweled or Bejewelled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Bejeweling or Bejewelling.]

Defn: To ornament with a jewel or with jewels; to spangle. "Bejeweled
hands." Thackeray.

BEJUCO
Be*ju"co, n. [Sp., a reed or woody vine.]

Defn: Any climbing woody vine of the tropics with the habit of a
liane; in the Philippines, esp. any of various species of Calamus,
the cane or rattan palm.

BEJUMBLE
Be*jum"ble, v. t.

Defn: To jumble together.

BEKAH
Be"kah, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: Half a shekel.

BEKNAVE
Be*knave", v. t.

Defn: To call knave. [Obs.] Pope.

BEKNOW
Be*know", v. t.

Defn: To confess; to acknowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEL
Bel, n.

Defn: The Babylonian name of the god known among the Hebrews as Baal.
See Baal. Baruch vi. 41.

BELABOR
Be*la"bor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belabored; p. pr. & vb. n.
Belaboring.]

1. To ply diligently; to work carefully upon. "If the earth is
belabored with culture, it yieldeth corn." Barrow.

2. To beat soundly; to cudgel.
Ajax belabors there a harmless ox. Dryden.

BEL-ACCOYLE
Bel`-ac*coyle", n. Etym: [F. bel beautiful + accueil reception.]

Defn: A kind or favorable reception or salutation. [Obs.]

BELACE
Be*lace", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belaced.]

1. To fasten, as with a lace or cord. [Obs.]

2. To cover or adorn with lace. [Obs.] Beaumont.

3. To beat with a strap. See Lace. [Obs.] Wright.

BELAM
Be*lam", v. t. Etym: [See Lam.]

Defn: To beat or bang. [Prov. & Low, Eng.] Todd.

BELAMOUR
Bel"a*mour, n. Etym: [F. bel amour fair love.]

1. A lover. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. A flower, but of what kind is unknown. [Obs.]
Her snowy brows, like budded belamours. Spenser.

BELAMY
Bel"a*my, n. Etym: [F. bel ami fair friend.]

Defn: Good friend; dear friend. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BELATE
Be*late", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belated; p. pr. & vb. n. Belating.]

Defn: To retard or make too late. Davenant.

BELATED
Be*lat"ed, a.

Defn: Delayed beyond the usual time; too late; overtaken by night;
benighted. "Some belated peasant." Milton.
 -- Be*lat"ed*ness, n. Milton.

BELAUD
Be*laud", v. t.

Defn: To laud or praise greatly.

BELAY
Be*lay", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belaid, Belayed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Belaying.] Etym: [For senses 1 & 2, D. beleggen to cover, belay; akin
to E. pref. be-, and lay to place: for sense 3, OE. beleggen, AS.
belecgan. See pref. Be-, and Lay to place.]

1. To lay on or cover; to adorn. [Obs.]
Jacket . . . belayed with silver lace. Spenser.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To make fast, as a rope, by taking several turns with it round
a pin, cleat, or kevel. Totten.

3. To lie in wait for with a view to assault. Hence: to block up or
obstruct. [Obs.] Dryden. Belay thee! Stop.

BELAYING PIN
Be*lay"ing pin`. (Naut.)

Defn: A strong pin in the side of a vessel, or by the mast, round
which ropes are wound when they are fastened or belayed.

BELCH
Belch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belched; p. pr. & vb. n. Belching.] Etym:
[OE. belken, AS. bealcan, akin to E. bellow. See Bellow, v. i.]

1. To eject or throw up from the stomach with violence; to eruct.
I belched a hurricane of wind. Swift.

2. To eject violently from within; to cast forth; to emit; to give
vent to; to vent.
Within the gates that now Stood open wide, belching outrageous flame.
Milton.

BELCH
Belch, v. i.

1. To eject wind from the stomach through the mouth; to eructate.

2. To issue with spasmodic force or noise. Dryden.

BELCH
Belch, n.

1. The act of belching; also, that which is belched; an eructation.

2. Malt liquor; -- vulgarly so called as causing eructation. [Obs.]
Dennis.

BELCHER
Belch"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, belches.

BELDAM; BELDAME
Bel"dam Bel"dame, n. Etym: [Pref. bel-, denoting relationship + dame
mother: cf. F. belledame fair lady, It. belladonna. See Belle, and
Dame.]

1. Grandmother; -- corresponding to belsire.
To show the beldam daughters of her daughter. Shak.

2. An old woman in general; especially, an ugly old woman; a hag.
Around the beldam all erect they hang. Akenside.

BELEAGUER
Be*lea"guer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beleaguered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Beleaguering.] Etym: [D. belegeren (akin to G. belagern, Sw. belägra,
Dan. beleire); pref. be- = E. be- + leger bed, camp, army, akin to E.
lair. See Lair.]

Defn: To surround with an army so as to preclude escape; to besiege;
to blockade.
The wail of famine in beleaguered towns. Longfellow.

Syn.
 -- To block up; environ; invest; encompass.

BELEAGUERER
Be*lea"guer*er, n.

Defn: One who beleaguers.

BELEAVE
Be*leave", v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Beleft.]

Defn: To leave or to be left. [Obs.] May.

BELECTURE
Be*lec"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belectured; p. pr. & vb. n.
Belecturing.]

Defn: To vex with lectures; to lecture frequently.

BELEE
Be*lee", v. t.

Defn: To place under the lee, or unfavorably to the wind. Shak.

BELEMNITE
Be*lem"nite, n. Etym: [Gr. dart, fr. dart, fr. to throw: cf. F.
bélemnite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: A conical calcareous fossil, tapering to a point at the lower
extremity, with a conical cavity at the other end, where it is
ordinarily broken; but when perfect it contains a small chambered
cone, called the phragmocone, prolonged, on one side, into a delicate
concave blade; the thunderstone. It is the internal shell of a
cephalopod related to the sepia, and belonging to an extinct family.
The belemnites are found in rocks of the Jurassic and Cretaceous
ages.
 -- Bel*em*nit"ic, a.

BELEPER
Be*lep"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belepered.]

Defn: To infect with leprosy. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

BEL-ESPRIT
Bel"-es*prit", n.; pl. Beaux-esprits. Etym: [F., fine wit.]

Defn: A fine genius, or man of wit. "A man of letters and a bel
esprit." W. Irving.

BELFRY
Bel"fry, n. Etym: [OE. berfray movable tower used in sieges, OF.
berfreit, berfroit, F. beffroi, fr. MHG. bervrit, bercvrit, G.
bergfriede, fr. MHG. bergen to protect (G. bergen to conceal) + vride
peace, protection, G. friede peace; in compounds often taken in the
sense of security, or place of security; orig. therefore a place
affording security. G. friede is akin to E. free. See Burg, and
Free.]

1. (Mil. Antiq.)

Defn: A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack and
defense.

2. A bell tower, usually attached to a church or other building, but
sometimes separate; a campanile.

3. A room in a tower in which a bell is or may be hung; or a cupola
or turret for the same purpose.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: The framing on which a bell is suspended.

BELGARD
Bel*gard", n. Etym: [It. bel guardo.]

Defn: A sweet or loving look. [Obs.] Spenser.

BELGIAN
Bel"gi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Belgium.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Belgium.

BELGIAN BLOCK
Belgian block.

Defn: A nearly cubical block of some tough stone, esp. granite, used
as a material for street pavements. Its usual diameter is 5 to 7
inches.

BELGIC
Bel"gic, a. Etym: [L. Belgicus, fr. Belgae the Belgians.]

1. Of or pertaining to the Belgæ, a German tribe who anciently
possessed the country between the Rhine, the Seine, and the ocean.
How unlike their Belgic sires of old. Goldsmith.

2. Of or pertaining to the Netherlands or to Belgium.

BELGRAVIAN
Bel*gra"vi*an, a.

Defn: Belonging to Belgravia (a fashionable quarter of London, around
Pimlico), or to fashionable life; aristocratic.

BELIAL
Be"li*al, n. Etym: [Heb. beli ya'al; beli without + ya'al profit.]

Defn: An evil spirit; a wicked and unprincipled person; the
personification of evil.
What concord hath Christ with Belia 2 Cor. vi. 15.
A son (or man) of Belial, a worthless, wicked, or thoroughly depraved
person. 1 Sam. ii. 12.

BELIBEL
Be*li"bel, v. t. Etym: [See Libel, v. t. ]

Defn: To libel or traduce; to calumniate. Fuller.

BELIE
Be*lie", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belied; p. pr. & vb. n. Belying.] Etym:
[OE. bilien, bili, AS. beleógan; pref. be- + leógan to lie. See Lie,
n.]

1. To show to be false; to convict of, or charge with, falsehood.
Their trembling hearts belie their boastful tongues. Dryden.

2. To give a false representation or account of.
Should I do so, I should belie my thoughts. Shak.

3. To tell lie about; to calumniate; to slander.
Thou dost belie him, Percy, thou dost belie him. Shak.

4. To mimic; to counterfeit. [Obs.] Dryden.

5. To fill with lies. [Obs.] "The breath of slander doth belie all
corners of the world." Shak.

BELIEF
Be*lief", n. Etym: [OE. bileafe, bileve; cf. AS. geleáfa. See
Believe.]

1. Assent to a proposition or affirmation, or the acceptance of a
fact, opinion, or assertion as real or true, without immediate
personal knowledge; reliance upon word or testimony; partial or full
assurance without positive knowledge or absolute certainty;
persuasion; conviction; confidence; as, belief of a witness; the
belief of our senses.
Belief admits of all degrees, from the slightest suspicion to the
fullest assurance. Reid.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: A persuasion of the truths of religion; faith.
No man can attain [to] belief by the bare contemplation of heaven and
earth. Hooker.

3. The thing believed; the object of belief.
Superstitious prophecies are not only the belief of fools, but the
talk sometimes of wise men. Bacon.

4. A tenet, or the body of tenets, held by the advocates of any class
of views; doctrine; creed.
In the heat of persecution to which Christian belief was subject upon
its first promulgation. Hooker.
Ultimate belief, a first principle incapable of proof; an intuitive
truth; an intuition. Sir W. Hamilton.

Syn.
 -- Credence; trust; reliance; assurance; opinion.

BELIEFFUL
Be*lief"ful, a.

Defn: Having belief or faith.

BELIEVABLE
Be*liev"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being believed; credible.
 -- Be*liev"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Be*liev`a*bil"i*ty (, n.

BELIEVE
Be*lieve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Believed; p. pr. & vb. n. Believing.]
Etym: [OE. bileven (with pref. be- for AS. ge-), fr. AS. gel, gel;
akin to D. gelooven, OHG. gilouban, G. glauben, OS. gil, Goth.
galaubjan, and Goth. liubs dear. See Lief, a., Leave, n.]

Defn: To exercise belief in; to credit upon the authority or
testimony of another; to be persuaded of the truth of, upon evidence
furnished by reasons, arguments, and deductions of the mind, or by
circumstances other than personal knowledge; to regard or accept as
true; to place confidence in; to think; to consider; as, to believe a
person, a statement, or a doctrine.
Our conqueror (whom I now Of force believe almighty). Milton.
King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets Acts xxvi.
Often followed by a dependent clause. I believe that Jesus Christ is
the Son of God. Acts viii. 37.

Syn.
 -- See Expect.

BELIEVE
Be*lieve", v. i.

1. To have a firm persuasion, esp. of the truths of religion; to have
a persuasion approaching to certainty; to exercise belief or faith.
Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief. Mark ix. 24.
With the heart man believeth unto righteousness. Rom. x. 10.

2. To think; to suppose.
I will not believe so meanly of you. Fielding.
To believe in. (a) To believe that the subject of the thought (if a
person or thing) exists, or (if an event) that it has occurred, or
will occur; -- as, to believe in the resurrection of the dead. "She
does not believe in Jupiter." J. H. Newman. (b) To believe that the
character, abilities, and purposes of a person are worthy of entire
confidence; -- especially that his promises are wholly trustworthy.
"Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in
me." John xiv. 1. (c) To believe that the qualities or effects of an
action or state are beneficial: as, to believe in sea bathing, or in
abstinence from alcoholic beverages.
 -- To believe on, to accept implicitly as an object of religious
trust or obedience; to have faith in.

BELIEVER
Be*liev"er, n.

1. One who believes; one who is persuaded of the truth or reality of
some doctrine, person, or thing.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: One who gives credit to the truth of the Scriptures, as a
revelation from God; a Christian; -- in a more restricted sense, one
who receives Christ as his Savior, and accepts the way of salvation
unfolded in the gospel.
Thou didst open the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers. Book of Com.
Prayer.

3. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One who was admitted to all the rights of divine worship and
instructed in all the mysteries of the Christian religion, in
distinction from a catechumen, or one yet under instruction.

BELIEVING
Be*liev"ing, a.

Defn: That believes; having belief.
 -- Be*liev"ing*ly, adv.

BELIGHT
Be*light", v. t.

Defn: To illuminate. [Obs.] Cowley.

BELIKE
Be*like", adv. Etym: [Pref. be- (for by) + like.]

Defn: It is likely or probably; perhaps. [Obs. or Archaic] --
Be*like"ly, adv.
Belike, boy, then you are in love. Shak.

BELIME
Be*lime", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belimed.]

Defn: To besmear or insnare with birdlime.

BELITTLE
Be*lit"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belittled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Belittling.]

Defn: To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in a
depreciatory or contemptuous way. T. Jefferson.

BELIVE
Be*live", adv. Etym: [Cf. Live, a.]

Defn: Forthwith; speedily; quickly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BELK
Belk, v. t. Etym: [See Belch.]

Defn: To vomit. [Obs.]

BELL
Bell, n. Etym: [AS. belle, fr. bellan to bellow. See Bellow.]

1. A hollow metallic vessel, usually shaped somewhat like a cup with
a flaring mouth, containing a clapper or tongue, and giving forth a
ringing sound on being struck.

Note: Bells have been made of various metals, but the best have
always been, as now, of an alloy of copper and tin. The Liberty Bell,
the famous bell of the Philadelphia State House, which rang when the
Continental Congress declared the Independence of the United States,
in 1776. It had been cast in 1753, and upon it were the words
"Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants
thereof."

2. A hollow perforated sphere of metal containing a loose ball which
causes it to sound when moved.

3. Anything in the form of a bell, as the cup or corol of a flower.
"In a cowslip's bell I lie." Shak.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: That part of the capital of a column included between the
abacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearly
cylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital.

5. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: The strikes of the bell which mark the time; or the time so
designated.

Note: On shipboard, time is marked by a bell, which is struck eight
times at 4, 8, and 12 o'clock. Half an hour after it has struck
"eight bells" it is struck once, and at every succeeding half hour
the number of strokes is increased by one, till at the end of the
four hours, which constitute a watch, it is struck eight times. To
bear away the bell, to win the prize at a race where the prize was a
bell; hence, to be superior in something. Fuller.
 -- To bear the bell, to be the first or leader; -- in allusion to
the bellwether or a flock, or the leading animal of a team or drove,
when wearing a bell.
 -- To curse by bell, book, and candle, a solemn form of
excommunication used in the Roman Catholic church, the bell being
tolled, the book of offices for the purpose being used, and three
candles being extinguished with certain ceremonies. Nares.
 -- To lose the bell, to be worsted in a contest. "In single fight he
lost the bell." Fairfax.
 -- To shake the bells, to move, give notice, or alarm. Shak.

Note: Bell is much used adjectively or in combinations; as, bell
clapper; bell foundry; bell hanger; bell-mouthed; bell tower, etc.,
which, for the most part, are self-explaining. Bell arch (Arch.), an
arch of unusual form, following the curve of an ogee.
 -- Bell cage, or Bell carriage (Arch.), a timber frame constructed
to carry one or more large bells.
 -- Bell cot (Arch.), a small or subsidiary construction, frequently
corbeled out from the walls of a structure, and used to contain and
support one or more bells.
 -- Bell deck (Arch.), the floor of a belfry made to serve as a roof
to the rooms below.
 -- Bell founder, one whose occupation it is to found or cast bells.
 -- Bell foundry, or Bell foundery, a place where bells are founded
or cast.
 -- Bell gable (Arch.), a small gable-shaped construction, pierced
with one or more openings, and used to contain bells.
 -- Bell glass. See Bell jar.
 -- Bell hanger, a man who hangs or puts up bells.
 -- Bell pull, a cord, handle, or knob, connecting with a bell or
bell wire, and which will ring the bell when pulled. Aytoun.
 -- Bell punch, a kind of conductor's punch which rings a bell when
used.
 -- Bell ringer, one who rings a bell or bells, esp. one whose
business it is to ring a church bell or chime, or a set of musical
bells for public entertainment.
 -- Bell roof (Arch.), a roof shaped according to the general lines
of a bell.
 -- Bell rope, a rope by which a church or other bell is rung.
 -- Bell tent, a circular conical-topped tent.
 -- Bell trap, a kind of bell shaped stench trap.

BELL
Bell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belled; p. pr. & vb. n. Belling.]

Defn: To put a bell upon; as, to bell the cat.

2. To make bell-mouthed; as, to bell a tube.

BELL
Bell, v. i.

Defn: To develop bells or corollas; to take the form of a bell; to
blossom; as, hops bell.

BELL
Bell, v. t. Etym: [AS. bellan. See Bellow.]

Defn: To utter by bellowing. [Obs.]

BELL
Bell, v. i.

Defn: To call or bellow, as the deer in rutting time; to make a
bellowing sound; to roar.
As loud as belleth wind in hell. Chaucer.
The wild buck bells from ferny brake. Sir W. Scott.

BELLADONNA
Bel`la*don"na, n. Etym: [It., literally fine lady; bella beautiful +
donna lady.] (Bot.)
(a) An herbaceous European plant (Atropa belladonna) with reddish
bell-shaped flowers and shining black berries. The whole plant and
its fruit are very poisonous, and the root and leaves are used as
powerful medicinal agents. Its properties are largely due to the
alkaloid atropine which it contains. Called also deadly nightshade.
(b) A species of Amaryllis (A. belladonna); the belladonna lily.

BELL ANIMALCULE
Bell" an`i*mal"cule. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An infusorian of the family Vorticellidæ, common in fresh-water
ponds.

BELLARMINE
Bel"lar*mine, n.

Defn: A stoneware jug of a pattern originated in the neighborhood of
Cologne, Germany, in the 16th century. It has a bearded face or mask
supposed to represent Cardinal Bellarmine, a leader in the Roman
Catholic Counter Reformation, following the Reformation; -- called
also graybeard, longbeard.

BELL BEARER
Bell" bear`er. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Brazilian leaf hopper (Bocydium tintinnabuliferum),
remarkable for the four bell-shaped appendages of its thorax.

BELLBIRD
Bell"bird`, n. Etym: [So called from their notes.] (Zoöl.)
(a) A South American bird of the genus Casmarhincos, and family
Cotingidæ, of several species; the campanero.
(b) The Myzantha melanophrys of Australia.

BELL CRANK
Bell" crank`.

Defn: A lever whose two arms form a right angle, or nearly a right
angle, having its fulcrum at the apex of the angle. It is used in
bell pulls and in changing the direction of bell wires at angles of
rooms, etc., and also in machinery.

BELLE
Belle, n. Etym: [F. belle, fem. of bel, beau, beautiful, fine. See
Beau.]

Defn: A young lady of superior beauty and attractions; a handsome
lady, or one who attracts notice in society; a fair lady.

BELLED
Belled, a.

Defn: Hung with a bell or bells.

BELLEEK WARE
Bel*leek" ware.

Defn: A porcelainlike kind of decorative pottery with a high gloss,
which is sometimes iridescent. A very fine kind is made at Belleek in
Ireland.

BELLE-LETTRIST
Belle-let"trist, n.

Defn: One versed in belleslettres.

BELLEROPHON
Bel*ler"o*phon, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fossil univalve shells, believed to belong to the
Heteropoda, peculiar to the Paleozoic age.

BELLES-LETTRES
Belles-let"tres, n. pl. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Polite or elegant literature; the humanities; -- used somewhat
vaguely for literary works in which imagination and taste are
predominant.

BELLETRISTIC; BELLETRISTICAL
Bel`le*tris"tic, Bel`le*tris"tic*al, a.

Defn: Occupied with, or pertaining to, belles-lettres. "An unlearned,
belletristic trifler." M. Arnold.

BELL-FACED
Bell"-faced`, a.

Defn: Having the striking surface convex; -- said of hammers.

BELLFLOWER
Bell"flow`er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Campanula; -- so named from its bell-
shaped flowers.

BELLFLOWER
Bell"flow`er, n. Etym: [F. bellefleur, lit., beautiful flower.]

Defn: A kind of apple. The yellow bellflower is a large, yellow
winter apple. [Written also bellefleur.]

BELLIBONE
Bel"li*bone, n. Etym: [F. belle et bonne, beautiful and good.]

Defn: A woman excelling both in beauty and goodness; a fair maid.
[Obs.] Spenser.

BELLIC; BELLICAL
Bel"lic, Bel"li*cal, a. Etym: [L. bellicus. See Bellicose.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to war; warlike; martial. [Obs.] "Bellic
Cæsar." Feltham.

BELLICOSE
Bel"li*cose`, a. Etym: [L. bellicosus, fr. bellicus of war, fr.
bellum war. See Duel.]

Defn: Inclined to war or contention; warlike; pugnacious.
Arnold was, in fact, in a bellicose vein. W. Irving.

BELLICOSELY
Bel"li*cose`ly, adv.

Defn: In a bellicose manner.

BELLICOUS
Bel"li*cous, a.

Defn: Bellicose. [Obs.]

BELLIED
Bel"lied

Defn: , a. Having (such) a belly; puffed out; -- used in composition;
as, pot-bellied; shad-bellied.

BELLIGERENCE; BELLIGERENCY
Bel*lig"er*ence, Bel*lig"er*en*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being belligerent; act or state of making war;
warfare.

BELLIGERENT
Bel*lig"er*ent, a. Etym: [L. bellum war + gerens, -entis, waging, p.
pr. of gerere to wage: cf. F. belligérant. See Bellicose, Jest.]

1. Waging war; carrying on war. "Belligerent powers." E. Everett.

2. Pertaining, or tending, to war; of or relating to belligerents;
as, a belligerent tone; belligerent rights.

BELLIGERENT
Bel*lig"er*ent, n.

Defn: A nation or state recognized as carrying on war; a person
engaged in warfare.

BELLIGERENTLY
Bel*lig"er*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a belligerent manner; hostilely.

BELLING
Bell"ing, n. Etym: [From Bell to bellow.]

Defn: A bellowing, as of a deer in rutting time. Johnson.

BELLIPOTENT
Bel*lip"o*tent, a. Etym: [L. bellipotens; bellum war + potens
powerful, p. pr. of posse to be able.]

Defn: Mighty in war; armipotent. [R.] Blount.

BELL JAR
Bell" jar`. (Phys.)

Defn: A glass vessel, varying in size, open at the bottom and closed
at the top like a bell, and having a knob or handle at the top for
lifting it. It is used for a great variety of purposes; as, with the
air pump, and for holding gases, also for keeping the dust from
articles exposed to view.

BELLMAN
Bell"man, n.

Defn: A man who rings a bell, especially to give notice of anything
in the streets. Formerly, also, a night watchman who called the
hours. Milton.

BELL METAL
Bell" met`al.

Defn: A hard alloy or bronze, consisting usually of about three parts
of copper to one of tin; -- used for making bells. Bell metal ore, a
sulphide of tin, copper, and iron; the mineral stannite.

BELL-MOUTHED
Bell"-mouthed`, a.

Defn: Expanding at the mouth; as, a bell-mouthed gun. Byron.

BELLON
Bel"lon, n.

Defn: Lead colic.

BELLONA
Bel*lo"na, n. Etym: [L., from bellum war.] (Rom. Myth.)

Defn: The goddess of war.

BELLOW
Bel"low, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bellowed ; p. pr. & vb. n. Bellowing.]
Etym: [OE. belwen, belowen, AS. bylgean, fr. bellan; akin to G.
bellen, and perh. to L. flere to weep, OSlav. bleja to bleat, Lith.
balsas voice. Cf. Bell, n. & v., Bawl, Bull.]

1. To make a hollow, loud noise, as an enraged bull.

2. To bowl; to vociferate; to clamor. Dryden.

3. To roar; as the sea in a tempest, or as the wind when violent; to
make a loud, hollow, continued sound.
The bellowing voice of boiling seas. Dryden.

BELLOW
Bel"low, v. t.

Defn: To emit with a loud voice; to shout; -- used with out. "Would
bellow out a laugh." Dryden.

BELLOW
Bel"low, n.

Defn: A loud resounding outcry or noise, as of an enraged bull; a
roar.

BELLOWER
Bel"low*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, bellows.

BELLOWS
Bel"lows, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [OE. bely, below, belly, bellows, AS.
bælg, bælig, bag, bellows, belly. Bellows is prop. a pl. and the
orig. sense is bag. See Belly.]

Defn: An instrument, utensil, or machine, which, by alternate
expansion and contraction, or by rise and fall of the top, draws in
air through a valve and expels it through a tube for various
purposes, as blowing fires, ventilating mines, or filling the pipes
of an organ with wind. Bellows camera, in photography, a form of
camera, which can be drawn out like an accordion or bellows.
 -- Hydrostatic bellows. See Hydrostatic.
 -- A pair of bellows, the ordinary household instrument for blowing
fires, consisting of two nearly heart-shaped boards with handles,
connected by leather, and having a valve and tube.

BELLOWS FISH
Bel"lows fish`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European fish (Centriscus scolopax), distinguished by a long
tubular snout, like the pipe of a bellows; -- called also trumpet
fish, and snipe fish.

BELL PEPPER
Bell" pep`per. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Capsicum, or Guinea pepper (C. annuum). It is the
red pepper of the gardens.

BELL PROCESS
Bell process. (Iron Metal.)

Defn: The process of washing molten pig iron by adding iron oxide,
proposed by I. Lowthian Bell of England about 1875.

BELL-SHAPED
Bell"-shaped`, a.

Defn: Having the shape of a widemouthed bell; campanulate.

BELL'S PALSY
Bell's palsy.

Defn: Paralysis of the facial nerve, producing distortion of one side
of the face.

BELL SYSTEM OF CONTROL
Bell system of control. (Aëronautics)

Defn: See Cloche.

BELLUINE
Bel"lu*ine, a. Etym: [L. belluinus, fr. bellua beast.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, a beast; brutal. [R.]
Animal and belluine life. Atterbury.

BELLWETHER
Bell"weth`er, n.

1. A wether, or sheep, which leads the flock, with a bell on his
neck.

2. Hence: A leader. [Contemptuous] Swift.

BELLWORT
Bell"wort", n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants (Uvularia) with yellowish bell-shaped
flowers.

BELLY
Bel"ly, n.; pl. Bellies. Etym: [OE. bali, bely, AS. belg, bælg,
bælig, bag, bellows, belly; akin to Icel. belgr bag, bellows, Sw.
bälg, Dan. bælg, D. & G. balg, cf. W. bol the paunch or belly, dim.
boly, Ir. bolg. Cf. Bellows, Follicle, Fool, Bilge.]

1. That part of the human body which extends downward from the breast
to the thighs, and contains the bowels, or intestines; the abdomen.

Note: Formerly all the splanchnic or visceral cavities were called
bellies; -- the lower belly being the abdomen; the middle belly, the
thorax; and the upper belly, the head. Dunglison.

2. The under part of the body of animals, corresponding to the human
belly.
Underneath the belly of their steeds. Shak.

3. The womb. [Obs.]
Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee. Jer. i. 5.

4. The part of anything which resembles the human belly in
protuberance or in cavity; the innermost part; as, the belly of a
flask, muscle, sail, ship.
Out of the belly of hell cried I. Jonah ii. 2.

5. (Arch.)

Defn: The hollow part of a curved or bent timber, the convex part of
which is the back. Belly doublet, a doublet of the 16th century,
hanging down so as to cover the belly. Shak.
 -- Belly fretting, the chafing of a horse's belly with a girth.
Johnson.
 -- Belly timber, food. [Ludicrous] Prior.
 -- Belly worm, a worm that breeds or lives in the belly (stomach or
intestines). Johnson.

BELLY
Bel"ly, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bellied; p. pr. & vb. n. Bellying.]

Defn: To cause to swell out; to fill. [R.]
Your breath of full consent bellied his sails. Shak.

BELLY
Bel"ly, v. i.

Defn: To swell and become protuberant, like the belly; to bulge.
The bellying canvas strutted with the gale. Dryden.

BELLYACHE
Bel"ly*ache`, n.

Defn: Pain in the bowels; colic.

BELLYBAND
Bel"ly*band`, n.

1. A band that passes under the belly of a horse and holds the saddle
or harness in place; a girth.

2. A band of flannel or other cloth about the belly.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A band of canvas, to strengthen a sail.

BELLYBOUND
Bel"ly*bound` (, a.

Defn: Costive; constipated.

BELLYCHEAT
Bel"ly*cheat`, n.

Defn: An apron or covering for the front of the person. [Obs.] Beau.
& Fl.

BELLYCHEER
Bel"ly*cheer`, n. Etym: [Perh. from F. belle chère.]

Defn: Good cheer; viands. [Obs.] "Bellycheer and banquets." Rowlands.
"Loaves and bellycheer." Milton.

BELLYCHEER
Bel"ly*cheer`, v. i.

Defn: To revel; to feast. [Obs.]
A pack of clergymen [assembled] by themselves to bellycheer in their
presumptuous Sion. Milton.

BELLYFUL
Bel"ly*ful, n.

Defn: As much as satisfies the appetite. Hence: A great abundance;
more than enough. Lloyd.
King James told his son that he would have his bellyful of
parliamentary impeachments. Johnson.

BELLY-GOD
Bel"ly-god`, n.

Defn: One whose great pleasure it is to gratify his appetite; a
glutton; an epicure.

BELLY-PINCHED
Bel"ly-pinched`, a.

Defn: Pinched with hunger; starved. "The belly-pinched wolf." Shak.

BELOCK
Be*lock", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belocked.] Etym: [Pref. be- + lock: cf.
AS. bel.]

Defn: To lock, or fasten as with a lock. [Obs.] Shak.

BELOMANCY
Bel"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. ; arrow + a diviner: cf. F. bélomancie.]

Defn: A kind of divination anciently practiced by means of marked
arrows drawn at random from a bag or quiver, the marks on the arrows
drawn being supposed to foreshow the future. Encyc. Brit.

BELONG
Be*long", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Belonged; p. pr. & vb. n. Belonging.]
Etym: [OE. belongen (akin to D. belangen to concern, G. belangen to
attain to, to concern); pref. be- + longen to desire. See Long, v.
i.]

Note: [Usually construed with to.]

1. To be the property of; as, Jamaica belongs to Great Britain.

2. To be a part of, or connected with; to be appendant or related; to
owe allegiance or service.
A desert place belonging to . . . Bethsaids. Luke ix. 10.
The mighty men which belonged to David. 1 Kings i. 8.

3. To be the concern or proper business or function of; to appertain
to. "Do not interpretations belong to God " Gen. xl. 8.

4. To be suitable for; to be due to.
Strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age. Heb. v. 14.
No blame belongs to thee. Shak.

5. To be native to, or an inhabitant of; esp. to have a legal
residence, settlement, or inhabitancy, whether by birth or operation
of law, so as to be entitled to maintenance by the parish or town.
Bastards also are settled in the parishes to which the mothers
belong. Blackstone.

BELONG
Be*long", v. t.

Defn: To be deserved by. [Obs.]
More evils belong us than happen to us. B. Jonson.

BELONGING
Be*long"ing, n. Etym: [Commonly in the pl.]

1. That which belongs to one; that which pertains to one; hence,
goods or effects. "Thyself and thy belongings." Shak.

2. That which is connected with a principal or greater thing; an
appendage; an appurtenance.

3. Family; relations; household. [Colloq.]
Few persons of her ladyship's belongings stopped, before they did her
bidding, to ask her reasons. Thackeray.

BELONITE
Bel"o*nite, n. Etym: [Gr. a needle.] (Min.)

Defn: Minute acicular or dendritic crystalline forms sometimes
observed in glassy volcanic rocks.

BELOOCHE; BELOOCHEE
Bel*oo"che Bel*oo"chee, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Beloochistan, or to its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Beloochistan.

BELORD
Be*lord", v. t.

1. To act the lord over.

2. To address by the title of "lord".

BELOVE
Be*love", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beloved.] Etym: [OE. bilufien. See
pref. Be-, and Love, v. t.]

Defn: To love. [Obs.] Wodroephe.

BELOVED
Be*loved", p. p. & a.

Defn: Greatly loved; dear to the heart.
Antony, so well beloved of Cæsar. Shak.
This is my beloved Son. Matt. iii. 17.

BELOVED
Be*lov"ed, n.

Defn: One greatly loved.
My beloved is mine, and I am his. Cant. ii. 16.

BELOW
Be*low", prep. Etym: [Pref. be- by + low.]

1. Under, or lower in place; beneath not so high; as, below the moon;
below the knee. Shak.

2. Inferior to in rank, excellence, dignity, value, amount, price,
etc.; lower in quality. "One degree below kings." Addison.

3. Unworthy of; unbefitting; beneath.
They beheld, with a just loathing and disdain, . . . how below all
history the persons and their actions were. Milton.
Who thinks no fact below his regard. Hallam.

Syn.
 -- Underneath; under; beneath.

BELOW
Be*low", adv.

1. In a lower place, with respect to any object; in a lower room;
beneath.
Lord Marmion waits below. Sir W. Scott.

2. On the earth, as opposed to the heavens.
The fairest child of Jove below. Prior.

3. In hell, or the regions of the dead.
What businesss brought him to the realms below. Dryden.

4. In court or tribunal of inferior jurisdiction; as, at the trial
below. Wheaton.

5. In some part or page following.

BELOWT
Be*lowt", v. t.

Defn: To treat as a lout; to talk abusively to. [Obs.] Camden.

BELSIRE
Bel"sire`, n. Etym: [Pref. bel- + sire. Cf. Beldam.]

Defn: A grandfather, or ancestor. "His great belsire Brute." [Obs.]
Drayton.

BELSWAGGER
Bel"swag`ger, n. Etym: [Contr. from bellyswagger.]

Defn: A lewd man; also, a bully. [Obs.] Dryden.

BELT
Belt, n. Etym: [AS. belt; akin to Icel. belti, Sw. bälte, Dan. bælte,
OHG. balz, L. balteus, Ir. & Gael. balt bo

1. That which engirdles a person or thing; a band or girdle; as, a
lady's belt; a sword belt.
The shining belt with gold inlaid. Dryden.

2. That which restrains or confines as a girdle.
He cannot buckle his distempered cause Within the belt of rule. Shak.

3. Anything that resembles a belt, or that encircles or crosses like
a belt; a strip or stripe; as, a belt of trees; a belt of sand.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Band, n., 2. A very broad band is more properly termed
a belt.

5. (Astron.)

Defn: One of certain girdles or zones on the surface of the planets
Jupiter and Saturn, supposed to be of the nature of clouds.

6. (Geog.)

Defn: A narrow passage or strait; as, the Great Belt and the Lesser
Belt, leading to the Baltic Sea.

7. (Her.)

Defn: A token or badge of knightly rank.

8. (Mech.)

Defn: A band of leather, or other flexible substance, passing around
two wheels, and communicating motion from one to the other.

Note: [See Illust. of Pulley.]

9. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A band or stripe, as of color, round any organ; or any circular
ridge or series of ridges. Belt lacing, thongs used for lacing
together the ends of machine belting.

BELT
Belt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belted; p. pr. & vb. n. Belting.]

Defn: To encircle with, or as with, a belt; to encompass; to
surround.
A coarse black robe belted round the waist. C. Reade.
They belt him round with hearts undaunted. Wordsworth.

2. To shear, as the buttocks and tails of sheep. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

BELTANE
Bel"tane, n. Etym: [Gael. bealltainn, bealltuinn.]

1. The first day of May (Old Style).
The quarter-days anciently in Scotland were Hallowmas, Candlemas,
Beltane, and Lammas. New English Dict.

2. A festival of the heathen Celts on the first day of May, in the
observance of which great bonfires were kindled. It still exists in a
modified form in some parts of Scotland and Ireland.

BELTED
Belt"ed, a.

1. Encircled by, or secured with, a belt; as, a belted plaid; girt
with a belt, as an honorary distinction; as, a belted knight; a
belted earl.

2. Marked with a band or circle; as, a belted stalk.

3. Worn in, or suspended from, the belt.
Three men with belted brands. Sir W. Scott.
Belted cattle, cattle originally from Dutch stock, having a broad
band of white round the middle, while the rest of the body is black;
-- called also blanketed cattle.

BELTEIN; BELTIN
Bel"tein, Bel"tin, n.

Defn: See Beltane.

BELTING
Belt"ing, n.

Defn: The material of which belts for machinery are made; also,
belts, taken collectively.

BELUGA
Be*lu"ga, n. Etym: [Russ. bieluga a sort of large sturgeon, prop.
white fish, fr. bieluii white.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A cetacean allied to the dolphins.

Note: The northern beluga (Delphinapterus catodon) is the white whale
and white fish of the whalers. It grows to be from twelve to eighteen
feet long.

BELUTE
Be*lute", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beluted; p. pr. & vb. n. Beluting.]
Etym: [Pref. be- + L. lutum mud.]

Defn: To bespatter, as with mud. [R.] Sterne.

BELVEDERE
Bel`ve*dere", n. Etym: [It., fr. bello, bel, beautiful + vedere to
see.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small building, or a part of a building, more or less open,
constructed in a place commanding a fine prospect.

BELZEBUTH
Bel"ze*buth, n. Etym: [From Beelzebub.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Brazil.

BEMA
Be"ma, n. Etym: [Gr. step, platform.]

1. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A platform from which speakers addressed an assembly. Mitford.

2. (Arch.)
(a) That part of an early Christian church which was reserved for the
higher clergy; the inner or eastern part of the chancel.
(b) Erroneously: A pulpit.

BEMAD
Be*mad", v. t.

Defn: To make mad. [Obs.] Fuller.

BEMANGLE
Be*man"gle, v. t.

Defn: To mangle; to tear asunder. [R.] Beaumont.

BEMASK
Be*mask", v. t.

Defn: To mask; to conceal.

BEMASTER
Be*mas"ter, v. t.

Defn: To master thoroughly.

BEMAUL
Be*maul", v. t.

Defn: To maul or beat severely; to bruise. "In order to bemaul
Yorick." Sterne.

BEMAZE
Be*maze, v. t. Etym: [OE. bimasen; pref. be- + masen to maze.]

Defn: To bewilder.
Intellects bemazed in endless doubt. Cowper.

BEMEAN
Be*mean", v. t.

Defn: To make mean; to lower. C. Reade.

BEMEET
Be*meet", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bemet; p. pr. & vb. n. Bemeeting.]

Defn: To meet. [Obs.]
Our very loving sister, well bemet. Shak.

BEMETE
Be*mete", v. t.

Defn: To mete. [Obs.] Shak.

BEMINGLE
Be*min"gle, v. t.

Defn: To mingle; to mix.

BEMIRE
Be*mire", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bemired; p. pr. & vb. n. Bemiring.]

Defn: To drag through, encumber with, or fix in, the mire; to soil by
passing through mud or dirt.
Bemired and benighted in the dog. Burke.

BEMIST
Be*mist", v. t.

Defn: To envelop in mist. [Obs.]

BEMOAN
Be*moan", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bemoaned; p. pr. & vb. n. Bemoaning.]
Etym: [OE. bimenen, AS. bem; pref. be- + m to moan. See Moan.]

Defn: To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; to
lament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with.
Implores their pity, and his pain bemoans. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- See Deplore.

BEMOANER
Be*moan"er, n.

Defn: One who bemoans.

BEMOCK
Be*mock", v. t.

Defn: To mock; to ridicule.
Bemock the modest moon. Shak.

BEMOIL
Be*moil", v. t. Etym: [Pref. be- + moil, fr. F. mouiller to wet; but
cf. also OE. bimolen to soil, fr. AS. mal spot: cf. E. mole.]

Defn: To soil or encumber with mire and dirt. [Obs.] Shak.

BEMOL
Be"mol, n. Etym: [F. bémol, fr. bé soft.] (Mus.)

Defn: The sign [Obs.]

BEMONSTER
Be*mon"ster, v. t.

Defn: To make monstrous or like a monster. [Obs.] Shak.

BEMOURN
Be*mourn", v. t.

Defn: To mourn over. Wyclif.

BEMUDDLE
Be*mud"dle, v. t.

Defn: To muddle; to stupefy or bewilder; to confuse.

BEMUFFLE
Be*muf"fle, v. t.

Defn: To cover as with a muffler; to wrap up.
Bemuffled with the externals of religion. Sterne.

BEMUSE
Be*muse", v. t.

Defn: To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor.
A parson much bemused in beer. Pope.

BEN; BEN NUT
Ben, Ben" nut`. Etym: [Ar. ban, name of the tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: The seed of one or more species of moringa; as, oil of ben. See
Moringa.

BEN
Ben, adv. & prep. Etym: [AS. binnan; pref. be- by + innan within, in
in.]

Defn: Within; in; in or into the interior; toward the inner
apartment. [Scot.]

BEN
Ben, n. Etym: [See Ben, adv.]

Defn: The inner or principal room in a hut or house of two rooms; --
opposed to but, the outer apartment. [Scot.]

BEN
Ben.

Defn: An old form of the pl. indic. pr. of Be. [Obs.]

BENAME
Be*name", v. t. [p. p. Benamed, Benempt.]

Defn: To promise; to name. [Obs.]

BENCH
Bench, n.; pl. Benches. Etym: [OE. bench, benk, AS. benc; akin to Sw.
bänk, Dan bænk, Icel. bekkr, OS., D., & G. bank. Cf. Bank, Beach.]

1. A long seat, differing from a stool in its greater length.
Mossy benches supplied the place of chairs. Sir W. Scott.

2. A long table at which mechanics and other work; as, a carpenter's
bench.

3. The seat where judges sit in court.
To pluck down justice from your awful bench. Shak.

4. The persons who sit as judges; the court; as, the opinion of the
full bench. See King's Bench.

5. A collection or group of dogs exhibited to the public; -- so named
because the animals are usually placed on benches or raised
platforms.

6. A conformation like a bench; a long stretch of flat ground, or a
kind of natural terrace, near a lake or river. Bench mark (Leveling),
one of a number of marks along a line of survey, affixed to permanent
objects, to show where leveling staffs were placed.
 -- Bench of bishops, the whole body of English prelates assembled in
council.
 -- Bench plane, any plane used by carpenters and joiners for working
a flat surface, as jack planes, long planes.
 -- Bench show, an exhibition of dogs.
 -- Bench table (Arch.), a projecting course at the base of a
building, or round a pillar, sufficient to form a seat.

BENCH
Bench, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Benched; p. pr. & vb. n. Benching.]

1. To furnish with benches.
'T was benched with turf. Dryden.
Stately theaters benched crescentwise. Tennyson.

2. To place on a bench or seat of honor.
Whom I . . . have benched and reared to worship. Shak.

BENCH
Bench, v. i.

Defn: To sit on a seat of justice. [R.] Shak.

BENCHER
Bench"er, n.

1. (Eng. Law)

Defn: One of the senior and governing members of an Inn of Court.

2. An alderman of a corporation. [Eng.] Ashmole.

3. A member of a court or council. [Obs.] Shak.

4. One who frequents the benches of a tavern; an idler. [Obs.]

BENCH MARK
Bench mark. (Leveling)

Defn: Any permanent mark to which other levels may be referred.
Specif. : A horizontal mark at the water's edge with reference to
which the height of tides and floods may be measured.

BENCH WARRANT
Bench" war`rant. (Law)

Defn: A process issued by a presiding judge or by a court against a
person guilty of some contempt, or indicted for some crime; -- so
called in distinction from a justice's warrant.

BEND
Bend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bended or Bent; p. pr. & vb. n. Bending.]
Etym: [AS. bendan to bend, fr. bend a band, bond, fr. bindan to bind.
See Bind, v. t., and cf. 3d & 4th Bend.]

1. To strain or move out of a straight line; to crook by straining;
to make crooked; to curve; to make ready for use by drawing into a
curve; as, to bend a bow; to bend the knee.

2. To turn toward some certain point; to direct; to incline. "Bend
thine ear to supplication." Milton.
Towards Coventry bend we our course. Shak.
Bending her eyes . . . upon her parent. Sir W. Scott.

3. To apply closely or with interest; to direct.
To bend his mind to any public business. Temple.
But when to mischief mortals bend their will. Pope.

4. To cause to yield; to render submissive; to subdue. "Except she
bend her humor." Shak.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To fasten, as one rope to another, or as a sail to its yard or
stay; or as a cable to the ring of an anchor. Totten. To bend the
brow, to knit the brow, as in deep thought or in anger; to scowl; to
frown. Camden.

Syn.
 -- To lean; stoop; deflect; bow; yield.

BEND
Bend, v. i.

1. To be moved or strained out of a straight line; to crook or be
curving; to bow.
The green earth's end Where the bowed welkin slow doth bend. Milton.

2. To jut over; to overhang.
There is a cliff, whose high and bending head Looks fearfully in the
confined deep. Shak.

3. To be inclined; to be directed.
To whom our vows and wished bend. Milton.

4. To bow in prayer, or in token of submission.
While each to his great Father bends. Coleridge.

BEND
Bend, n. Etym: [See Bend, v. t., and cf. Bent, n.]

1. A turn or deflection from a straight line or from the proper
direction or normal position; a curve; a crook; as, a slight bend of
the body; a bend in a road.

2. Turn; purpose; inclination; ends. [Obs.]
Farewell, poor swain; thou art not for my bend. Fletcher.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A knot by which one rope is fastened to another or to an
anchor, spar, or post. Totten.

4. (Leather Trade)

Defn: The best quality of sole leather; a butt. See Butt.

5. (Mining)

Defn: Hard, indurated clay; bind. Bends of a ship, the thickest and
strongest planks in her sides, more generally called wales. They have
the beams, knees, and foothooks bolted to them. Also, the frames or
ribs that form the ship's body from the keel to the top of the sides;
as, the midship bend.

BEND
Bend, n. Etym: [AS. bend. See Band, and cf. the preceding noun.]

1. A band. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. Etym: [OF. bende, bande, F. bande. See Band.] (Her.)

Defn: One of the honorable ordinaries, containing a third or a fifth
part of the field. It crosses the field diagonally from the dexter
chief to the sinister base. Bend sinister (Her.), an honorable
ordinary drawn from the sinister chief to the dexter base.

BENDABLE
Bend"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being bent.

BENDER
Bend"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, bends.

2. An instrument used for bending.

3. A drunken spree. [Low, U. S.] Bartlett.

4. A sixpence. [Slang, Eng.]

BENDING
Bend"ing, n.

Defn: The marking of the clothes with stripes or horizontal bands.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

BENDLET
Bend"let, n. Etym: [Bend + -let: cf. E. bandlet.] (Her.)

Defn: A narrow bend, esp. one half the width of the bend.

BENDWISE
Bend"wise, adv. (Her.)

Defn: Diagonally.

BENDY
Ben"dy, a. Etym: [From Bend a band.] (Her.)

Defn: Divided into an even number of bends; -- said of a shield or
its charge. Cussans.

BENE
Ben"e, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Benne.

BENE
Be"ne, n. Etym: [AS. b.]

Defn: A prayer; boon. [Archaic]
What is good for a bootless bene Wordsworth.

BENE; BEN
Bene, Ben, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A hoglike mammal of New Guinea (Porcula papuensis).

BENEAPED
Be*neaped", a. (Naut.)

Defn: See Neaped.

BENEATH
Be*neath", prep. Etym: [OE. benethe, bineo, AS. beneo, beny; pref.
be- + neo, ny, downward, beneath, akin to E. nether. See Nether.]

1. Lower in place, with something directly over or on; under;
underneath; hence, at the foot of. "Beneath the mount." Ex. xxxii.
19.
Beneath a rude and nameless stone he lies. Pope.

2. Under, in relation to something that is superior, or that
oppresses or burdens.
Our country sinks beneath the yoke. Shak.

3. Lower in rank, dignity, or excellence than; as, brutes are beneath
man; man is beneath angels in the scale of beings. Hence: Unworthy
of; unbecoming.
He will do nothing that is beneath his high station. Atterbury.

BENEATH
Be*neath", adv.

1. In a lower place; underneath.
The earth you take from beneath will be barren. Mortimer.

2. Below, as opposed to heaven, or to any superior region or
position; as, in earth beneath.

BENEDICITE
Ben`e*dic"i*te, n. Etym: [L., (imperative pl.,) bless ye, praise ye.]

Defn: A canticle (the Latin version of which begins with this word)
which may be used in the order for morning prayer in the Church of
England. It is taken from an apocryphal addition to the third chapter
of Daniel.

BENEDICITE
Ben`e*dic"i*te, interj. Etym: [See Benedicite, n.]

Defn: An exclamation corresponding to Bless you !.

BENEDICT; BENEDICK
Ben"e*dict, Ben"e*dick, n. Etym: [From Benedick, one of the
characters in Shakespeare's play of "Much Ado about Nothing."]

Defn: A married man, or a man newly married.

BENEDICT
Ben"e*dict, a. Etym: [L. benedictus, p. p. of benedicere to bless.
See Benison, and cf. Bennet.]

Defn: Having mild and salubrious qualities. [Obs.] Bacon.

BENEDICTINE
Ben`e*dic"tine, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the monks of St. Benedict, or St. Benet.

BENEDICTINE
Ben`e*dic"tine, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a famous order of monks, established by St. Benedict of
Nursia in the sixth century. This order was introduced into the
United States in 1846.

Note: The Benedictines wear black clothing, and are sometimes called
Black Monks. The name Black Fr which belongs to the Dominicans, is
also sometimes applied to the Benedictines.

BENEDICTION
Ben`e*dic"tion, n. Etym: [L. benedictio: cf. F. bénédiction. See
Benison.]

1. The act of blessing.

2. A blessing; an expression of blessing, prayer, or kind wishes in
favor of any person or thing; a solemn or affectionate invocation of
happiness.
So saying, he arose; whom Adam thus Followed with benediction.
Milton.
Homeward serenely she walked with God's benediction upon her.
Longfellow.
Specifically:

Defn: The short prayer which closes public worship; as, to give the
benediction.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: The form of instituting an abbot, answering to the consecration
of a bishop. Ayliffe.

4. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A solemn rite by which bells, banners, candles, etc., are
blessed with holy water, and formally dedicated to God.

BENEDICTIONAL
Ben`e*dic"tion*al, n.

Defn: A book of benedictions.

BENEDICTIONARY
Ben`e*dic"tion*a*ry, n.

Defn: A collected series of benedictions.
The benedictionary of Bishop Athelwold. G. Gurton's Needle.

BENEDICTIVE
Ben`e*dic"tive, a.

Defn: Tending to bless. Gauden.

BENEDICTORY
Ben`e*dic"to*ry, a.

Defn: Expressing wishes for good; as, a benedictory prayer.
Thackeray.

BENEDICTUS
Ben`e*dic"tus, n. Etym: [L., blessed. See Benedict, a.]

Defn: The song of Zacharias at the birth of John the Baptist (Luke i.
68); -- so named from the first word of the Latin version.

BENEDIGHT
Ben"e*dight, a.

Defn: Blessed. [R.] Longfellow.

BENEFACTION
Ben`e*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. benefactio, fr. benefacere to do good to
one; bene well + facere to do. See Benefit.]

1. The act of conferring a benefit. Johnson.

2. A benefit conferred; esp. a charitable donation.

Syn.
 -- Gift; present; gratuity; boon; alms.

BENEFACTOR
Ben`e*fac"tor,n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who confers a benefit or benefits. Bacon.

BENEFACTRESS
Ben`e*fac"tress, n.

Defn: A woman who confers a benefit.
His benefactress blushes at the deed. Cowper.

BENEFIC
Be*nef"ic, a. Etym: [L. beneficus. See Benefice.]

Defn: Favorable; beneficent. Milton.

BENEFICE
Ben"e*fice, n. Etym: [F. bénéfice, L. beneficium, a kindness , in LL.
a grant of an estate, fr. L. beneficus beneficent; bene well + facere
to do. See Benefit.]

1. A favor or benefit. [Obs.] Baxter.

2. (Feudal Law)

Defn: An estate in lands; a fief.

Note: Such an estate was granted at first for life only, and held on
the mere good pleasure of the donor; but afterward, becoming
hereditary, it received the appellation of fief, and the term
benefice became appropriated to church livings.

3. An ecclesiastical living and church preferment, as in the Church
of England; a church endowed with a revenue for the maintenance of
divine service. See Advowson.

Note: All church preferments are called benefices, except bishoprics,
which are called dignities. But, ordinarily, the term dignity is
applied to bishoprics, deaneries, archdeaconries, and
prebendaryships; benefice to parsonages, vicarages, and donatives.

BENEFICE
Ben"e*fice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beneficed.]

Defn: To endow with a benefice.

Note: [Commonly in the past participle.]

BENEFICED
Ben"e*ficed, a.

Defn: Possessed of a benefice o "Beneficed clergymen." Burke.

BENEFICELESS
Ben"e*fice*less, a.

Defn: Having no benefice. "Beneficeless precisians." Sheldon.

BENEFICENCE
Be*nef"i*cence, n. Etym: [L. beneficentia, fr. beneficus: cf. F.
bénéficence. See Benefice.]

Defn: The practice of doing good; active goodness, kindness, or
charity; bounty springing from purity and goodness.
And whose beneficence no charge exhausts. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- See Benevolence.

BENEFICENT
Be*nef`i*cent

Defn: , a. Doing or producing good; performing acts of kindness and
charity; characterized by beneficence.
The beneficent fruits of Christianity. Prescott.

Syn.
 -- See Benevolent.

BENEFICENTIAL
Be*nef`i*cen"tial, a.

Defn: Relating to beneficence.

BENEFICENTLY
Be*nef"i*cent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a beneficent manner; with beneficence.

BENEFICIAL
Ben`e*fi"cial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. bénéficial, LL. beneficialis.]

1. Conferring benefits; useful; profito.
The war which would have been most beneficial to us. Swift.

2. (Law)

Defn: Receiving, or entitled to have or receive, advantage, use, or
benefit; as, the beneficial owner of an estate. Kent.

3. King. [Obs.] "A beneficial foe." B. Jonson.

Syn.
 -- See Advantage.

BENEFICIALLY
Ben`e*fi"cial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a beneficial or advantageous manner; profitably; helpfully.

BENEFICIALNESS
Ben`e*fi"cial*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being beneficial; profitableness.

BENEFICIARY
Ben`e*fi"ci*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. bénéficiaire, LL. beneficiarius.]

1. Holding some office or valuable possession, in subordination to
another; holding under a feudal or other superior; having a dependent
and secondary possession.
A feudatory or beneficiary king of England. Bacon.

2. Bestowed as a gratuity; as, beneficiary gifts.

BENEFICIARY
Ben`e*fi"ci*a*ry, n.; pl. Beneficiaries (.

1. A feudatory or vassal; hence, one who holds a benefice and uses
its proceeds. Ayliffe.

2. One who receives anything as a gift; one who receives a benefit or
advantage; esp. one who receives help or income from an educational
fund or a trust estate.
The rich men will be offering sacrifice to their Deity whose
beneficiaries they are. Jer. Taylor.

BENEFICIATE
Ben`e*fi"ci*ate, v. t. Etym: [Sp. beneficiar to benefit, to work
mines.] (Mining)

Defn: To reduce (ores).
 -- Ben`e*fi`ci*a"tion (n.

BENEFICIENT
Ben`e*fi"cient, a.

Defn: Beneficent. [Obs.]

BENEFIT
Ben"e*fit, n. Etym: [OE. benefet, benfeet, bienfet, F. bienfait, fr.
L. benefactum; bene well (adv. of bonus good) + factum, p. p. of
facere to do. See Bounty, and Fact.]

1. An act of kindness; a favor conferred.
Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Ps. ciii.
2.

2. Whatever promotes prosperity and personal happiness, or adds value
to property; advantage; profit.
Men have no right to what is not for their benefit. Burke.

3. A theatrical performance, a concert, or the like, the proceeds of
which do not go to the lessee of the theater or to the company, but
to some individual actor, or to some charitable use.

4. Beneficence; liberality. [Obs.] Webster (1623).

5. pl.

Defn: Natural advantaged; endowments; accomplishments. [R.] "The
benefits of your own country." Shak. Benefit of clergy. (Law) See
under Clergy.

Syn.
 -- Profit; service; use; avail. See Advantage.

BENEFIT
Ben"e*fit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Benefited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Benefitting.]

Defn: To be beneficial to; to do good to; to advantage; to advance in
health or prosperity; to be useful to; to profit.
I will repent of the good, wherewith I said I would benefit them.
Jer. xviii. 10.

BENEFIT
Ben"e*fit, v. i.

Defn: To gain advantage; to make improvement; to profit; as, he will
benefit by the change.

BENEFITER
Ben"e*fit`er, n.

Defn: One who confers a benefit; -- also, one who receives a benefit.

BENEFIT SOCIETY
Benefit society.

Defn: A society or association formed for mutual insurance, as among
tradesmen or in labor unions, to provide for relief in sickness, old
age, and for the expenses of burial. Usually called friendly society
in Great Britain.

BENEME
Be*neme", v. t. Etym: [AS. ben. Cf. Benim.]

Defn: To deprive (of), or take away (from). [Obs.]

BENEMPT
Be*nempt", p. p.

Defn: of Bename.

1. Promised; vowed. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. Named; styled. [Archaic] Sir W. Scott.

BENE PLACITO
Be`ne plac"i*to. Etym: [It. beneplacito pleasure, fr. L. bene well +
placitus pleasing.]

1. At or during pleasure.
For our English judges there never was . . . any bene placito as
their tenure. F. Harrison.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: At pleasure; ad libitum.

BENET
Be*net", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Benetted.]

Defn: To catch in a net; to insnare. Shak.

BENEVOLENCE
Be*nev"o*lence, n. Etym: [OF. benevolence, L. benevolentia. See
Benevolent.]

1. The disposition to do good; good will; charitableness; love of
mankind, accompanied with a desire to promote their happiness.
The wakeful benevolence of the gospel. Chalmers.

2. An act of kindness; good done; charity given.

3. A species of compulsory contribution or tax, which has sometimes
been illegally exacted by arbitrary kings of England, and falsely
represented as a gratuity.

Syn.
 -- Benevolence, Beneficence, Munificence. Benevolence marks a
disposition made up of a choice and desire for the happiness of
others. Beneficence marks the working of this disposition in
dispensing good on a somewhat broad scale. Munificence shows the same
disposition, but acting on a still broader scale, in conferring gifts
and favors. These are not necessarily confined to objects of
immediate utility. One may show his munificence in presents of
pictures or jewelry, but this would not be beneficence. Benevolence
of heart; beneficence of life; munificence in the encouragement of
letters.

BENEVOLENT
Be*nev"o*lent, a. Etym: [L. benevolens, -entis; bene well (adv. of
bonus good) + volens, p. pr. of volo I will, I wish. See Bounty, and
Voluntary.]

Defn: Having a disposition to do good; possessing or manifesting love
to mankind, and a desire to promote their prosperity and happiness;
disposed to give to good objects; kind; charitable.
 -- Be*nev"o*lent*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Benevolent, Beneficent. Etymologically considered, benevolent
implies wishing well to others, and beneficent, doing well. But by
degrees the word benevolent has been widened to include not only
feelings, but actions; thus, we speak of benevolent operations,
benevolent labors for the public good, benevolent societies. In like
manner, beneficent is now often applied to feelings; thus, we speak
of the beneficent intentions of a donor. This extension of the terms
enables us to mark nicer shades of meaning. Thus, the phrase
"benevolent labors" turns attention to the source of these labors,
viz., benevolent feeling; while beneficent would simply mark them as
productive of good. So, "beneficent intentions" point to the feelings
of the donor as bent upon some specific good act; while "benevolent
intentions" would only denote a general wish and design to do good.

BENEVOLOUS
Be*nev"o*lous, a. Etym: [L. benevolus.]

Defn: Kind; benevolent. [Obs.] T. Puller.

BENGAL
Ben*gal", n.

1. A province in India, giving its name to various stuffs, animals,
etc.

2. A thin stuff, made of silk and hair, originally brought from
Bengal.

3. Striped gingham, originally brought from Bengal; Bengal stripes.
Bengal light, a firework containing niter, sulphur, and antimony, and
producing a sustained and vivid colored light, used in making signals
and in pyrotechnics; -- called also blue light.
 -- Bengal stripes, a kind of cotton cloth woven with colored
stripes. See Bengal, 3.
 -- Bengal tiger. (Zoöl.). See Tiger.

BENGALEE; BENGALI
Ben*gal"ee, Ben*gal"i, n.

Defn: The language spoken in Bengal.

BENGALESE
Ben`gal*ese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Bengal.
 -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Bengal.

BENGOLA
Ben*go"la, n.

Defn: A Bengal light.

BENIGHT
Be*night", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Benighted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Benighting.]

1. To involve in darkness; to shroud with the shades of night; to
obscure. [Archaic]
The clouds benight the sky. Garth.

2. To overtake with night or darkness, especially before the end of a
day's journey or task.
Some virgin, sure, . . . benighted in these woods. Milton.

3. To involve in moral darkness, or ignorance; to debar from
intellectual light.
Shall we to men benighted The lamp of life deny Heber.

BENIGHTMENT
Be*night"ment, n.

Defn: The condition of being benighted.

BENIGN
Be*nign", a. Etym: [OE. benigne, bening, OF. benigne, F. bénin, fem.
bénigne, fr. L. benignus, contr. from benigenus; bonus good + root of
genus kind. See Bounty, and Genus.]

1. Of a kind or gentle disposition; gracious; generous; favorable;
benignant.
Creator bounteous and benign. Milton.

2. Exhibiting or manifesting kindness, gentleness, favor, etc.; mild;
kindly; salutary; wholesome.
Kind influences and benign aspects. South.

3. Of a mild type or character; as, a benign disease.

Syn.
 -- Kind; propitious; bland; genial; salubrious; favorable salutary;
gracious; liberal.

BENIGNANCY
Be*nig"nan*cy, n.

Defn: Benignant quality; kindliness.

BENIGNANT
Be*nig"nant, a. Etym: [LL. benignans, p. pr. of benignare, from L.
benignus. See Benign.]

Defn: Kind; gracious; favorable.
 -- Be*nig"nant*ly, adv.

BENIGNITY
Be*nig"ni*ty, n. Etym: [OE. benignite, F. bénignité, OF. bénigneté,
fr. L. benignitas. See Benign.]

1. The quality of being benign; goodness; kindness; graciousness.
"Benignity of aspect." Sir W. Scott.

2. Mildness; gentleness.
The benignity or inclemency of the season. Spectator.

3. Salubrity; wholesome quality. Wiseman.

BENIGNLY
Be*nign"ly, adv.

Defn: In a benign manner.

BENIM
Be*nim", v. t. Etym: [AS. beniman. See Benumb, and cf. Nim.]

Defn: To take away. [Obs.]
Ire . . . benimeth the man fro God. Chaucer.

BENISON
Ben"i*son, n. Etym: [OE. beneysun, benesoun, OF. beneï, beneïson, fr.
L. benedictio, fr. benedicere to bless; bene (adv. of bonus good) +
dicere to say. See Bounty, and Diction, and cf. Benediction.]

Defn: Blessing; beatitude; benediction. Shak.
More precious than the benison of friends. Talfourd.

BENITIER
Bé*ni"tier`, n. Etym: [F., fr. bénir to bless.] (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A holy-water stoup. Shipley.

BENJAMIN
Ben"ja*min, n. Etym: [Corrupted from benzoin.]

Defn: See Benzoin.

BENJAMIN
Ben"ja*min, n.

Defn: A kind of upper coat for men. [Colloq. Eng.]

BENJAMITE
Ben"ja*mite, n.

Defn: A descendant of Benjamin; one of the tribe of Benjamin. Judg.
iii. 15.

BENNE
Ben"ne, n. Etym: [Malay bijen.] (Bot.)

Defn: The name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum),
originally Asiatic; -- also called oil plant. From their seeds an oil
is expressed, called benne oil, used mostly for making soap. In the
southern United States the seeds are used in candy.

BENNET
Ben"net, n. Etym: [F. benoîte, fr. L. benedicta, fem. of benedictus,
p. p., blessed. See Benedict, a.] (Bot.)

Defn: The common yellow-flowered avens of Europe (Geum urbanum); herb
bennet. The name is sometimes given to other plants, as the hemlock,
valerian, etc.

BENSHEE
Ben"shee, n.

Defn: See Banshee.

BENT
Bent,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Bend.

BENT
Bent, a. & p. p.

1. Changed by pressure so as to be no longer straight; crooked; as, a
bent pin; a bent lever.

2. Strongly inclined toward something, so as to be resolved,
determined, set, etc.; -- said of the mind, character, disposition,
desires, etc., and used with on; as, to be bent on going to college;
he is bent on mischief.

BENT
Bent, n. Etym: [See Bend, n. & v.]

1. The state of being curved, crooked, or inclined from a straight
line; flexure; curvity; as, the bent of a bow. [Obs.] Wilkins.

2. A declivity or slope, as of a hill. [R.] Dryden.

3. A leaning or bias; proclivity; tendency of mind; inclination;
disposition; purpose; aim. Shak.
With a native bent did good pursue. Dryden.

4. Particular direction or tendency; flexion; course.
Bents and turns of the matter. Locke.

5. (Carp.)

Defn: A transverse frame of a framed structure.

6. Tension; force of acting; energy; impetus. [Archaic]
The full bent and stress of the soul. Norris.

Syn.
 -- Predilection; turn. Bent, Bias, Inclination, Prepossession. These
words agree in describing a permanent influence upon the mind which
tends to decide its actions. Bent denotes a fixed tendency of the
mind in a given direction. It is the widest of these terms, and
applies to the will, the intellect, and the affections, taken
conjointly; as, the whole bent of his character was toward evil
practices. Bias is literally a weight fixed on one side of a ball
used in bowling, and causing it to swerve from a straight course.
Used figuratively, bias applies particularly to the judgment, and
denotes something which acts with a permanent force on the character
through that faculty; as, the bias of early education, early habits,
etc. Inclination is an excited state of desire or appetency; as, a
strong inclination to the study of the law. Prepossession is a
mingled state of feeling and opinion in respect to some person or
subject, which has laid hold of and occupied the mind previous to
inquiry. The word is commonly used in a good sense, an unfavorable
impression of this kind being denominated a prejudice. "Strong minds
will be strongly bent, and usually labor under a strong bias; but
there is no mind so weak and powerless as not to have its
inclinations, and none so guarded as to be without its
prepossessions." Crabb.

BENT
Bent, n. Etym: [AS. beonet; akin to OHG. pinuz, G. binse, rush, bent
grass; of unknown origin.]

1. A reedlike grass; a stalk of stiff, coarse grass.
His spear a bent, both stiff and strong. Drayton.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A grass of the genus Agrostis, esp. Agrostis vulgaris, or
redtop. The name is also used of many other grasses, esp. in America.

3. Any neglected field or broken ground; a common; a moor. [Obs.]
Wright.
Bowmen bickered upon the bent. Chevy Chase.

BENT GRASS
Bent" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Bent, a kind of grass.

BENTHAL
Ben"thal, a. Etym: [Gr. the depth of the sea.]

Defn: Relating to the deepest zone or region of the ocean.

BENTHAMIC
Ben*tham"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Bentham or Benthamism.

BENTHAMISM
Ben"tham*ism, n.

Defn: That phase of the doctrine of utilitarianism taught by Jeremy
Bentham; the doctrine that the morality of actions is estimated and
determined by their utility; also, the theory that the sensibility to
pleasure and the recoil from pain are the only motives which
influence human desires and actions, and that these are the
sufficient explanation of ethical and jural conceptions.

BENTHAMITE
Ben"tham*ite, n.

Defn: One who believes in Benthamism.

BENTHOS
Ben"thos, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  depth of the sea.]

Defn: The bottom of the sea, esp. of the deep oceans; hence (Bot. &
Zoöl.), the fauna and flora of the sea bottom; -- opposed to
plankton.

BENTING TIME
Bent"ing time".

Defn: The season when pigeons are said to feed on bents, before peas
are ripe.
Bare benting times . . . may come. Dryden.

BENTY
Bent"y, a.

1. A bounding in bents, or the stalks of coarse, stiff, withered
grass; as, benty fields.

2. Resembling bent. Holland.

BENUMB
Be*numb", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Benumbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Benumbing.]
Etym: [OE. binomen, p. p. of binimen to take away, AS. beniman; pref.
be + niman to take. See Numb, a., and cf. Benim.]

Defn: To make torpid; to deprive of sensation or sensibility; to
stupefy; as, a hand or foot benumbed by cold.
The creeping death benumbed her senses first. Dryden.

BENUMBED
Be*numbed", a.

Defn: Made torpid; numbed; stupefied; deadened; as, a benumbed body
and mind.
 -- Be*numbed"ness, n.

BENUMBMENT
Be*numb"ment, n.

Defn: Act of benumbing, or state of being benumbed; torpor. Kirby.

BENZAL
Ben"zal, n. Etym: [Benzoic + aldehyde.] (Chem.)

Defn: A transparent crystalline substance,

BENZAMIDE
Ben*zam"ide, n. Etym: [Benzoin + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A transparent crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.NH2, obtained by
the action of ammonia upon chloride of benzoyl, as also by several
other reactions with benzoyl compounds.

BENZENE
Ben"zene, n. Etym: [From Benzoin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A volatile, very inflammable liquid, C6H6, contained in the
naphtha produced by the destructive distillation of coal, from which
it is separated by fractional distillation. The name is sometimes
applied also to the impure commercial product or benzole, and also,
but rarely, to a similar mixed product of petroleum. Benzene nucleus,
Benzene ring (Chem.), a closed chain or ring, consisting of six
carbon atoms, each with one hydrogen atom attached, regarded as the
type from which the aromatic compounds are derived. This ring formula
is provisionally accepted as representing the probable constitution
of the benzene molecule, C6H6, and as the type on which its
derivatives are formed.

BENZILE
Ben"zile, n. Etym: [From Benzoin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A yellowish crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.CO.C6H5, formed from
benzoin by the action of oxidizing agents, and consisting of a
doubled benzoyl radical.

BENZINE
Ben"zine, n. Etym: [From Benzoin.] (Chem.)

1. A liquid consisting mainly of the lighter and more volatile
hydrocarbons of petroleum or kerosene oil, used as a solvent and for
cleansing soiled fabrics; -- called also petroleum spirit, petroleum
benzine. Varieties or similar products are gasoline, naphtha,
rhigolene, ligroin, etc.

2. Same as Benzene. [R.]

Note: The hydrocarbons of benzine proper are essentially of the marsh
gas series, while benzene proper is the typical hydrocarbon of the
aromatic series.

BENZOATE
Ben"zo*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. benzoate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt formed by the union of benzoic acid with any salifiable
base.

BENZOIC
Ben*zo"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. benzoïque.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, benzoin. Benzoic acid, or
flowers of benzoin, a peculiar vegetable acid, C6H5.CO2H, obtained
from benzoin, and some other balsams, by sublimation or decoction. It
is also found in the urine of infants and herbivorous animals. It
crystallizes in the form of white, satiny flakes; its odor is
aromatic; its taste is pungent, and somewhat acidulous.
 -- Benzoic aldehyde, oil of bitter almonds; the aldehyde, C6H5.CHO,
intermediate in composition between benzoic or benzyl alcohol, and
benzoic acid. It is a thin colorless liquid.

BENZOIN
Ben*zoin", n. Etym: [Cf. F. benjoin, Sp. benjui, Pg. beijoin; all fr.
Ar. luban-jawi incense form Sumatra (named Java in Arabic), the first
syllable being lost. Cf. Benjamin.]

Note: [Called also benjamin.]

1. A resinous substance, dry and brittle, obtained from the Styrax
benzoin, a tree of Sumatra, Java, etc., having a fragrant odor, and
slightly aromatic taste. It is used in the preparation of benzoic
acid, in medicine, and as a perfume.

2. A white crystalline substance, C14H12O2, obtained from benzoic
aldehyde and some other sources.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: The spicebush (Lindera benzoin). Flowers of benzoin, benzoic
acid. See under Benzoic.

BENZOINATED
Ben*zoin"a*ted, a. (Med.)

Defn: Containing or impregnated with benzoin; as, benzoinated lard.

BENZOLE; BENZOL
Ben"zole Ben"zol, n. Etym: [Benzoin + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: An impure benzene, used in the arts as a solvent, and for
various other purposes. See Benzene.

Note: It has great solvent powers, and is used by manufacturers of
India rubber and gutta percha; also for cleaning soiled kid gloves,
and for other purposes.

BENZOLINE
Ben"zo*line, n. (Chem.)
(a) Same as Benzole.
(b) Same as Amarine. [R.] Watts.

BENZONAPHTHOL; BENZONAPHTOL
Ben`zo*naph"thol, n. Also Ben`zo*naph"tol . [Benzoin + naphthol.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline powder used as an intestinal antiseptic;
beta-naphthol benzoate.

BENZOSOL
Ben"zo*sol, n. (Pharm.)

Defn: Guaiacol benzoate, used as an intestinal antiseptic and as a
substitute for creosote in phthisis. It is a colorless crystalline
pewder.

BENZOYL
Ben"zoyl, n. Etym: [Benzoic + Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical, C6H5.CO; the base of benzoic acid, of the
oil of bitter almonds, and of an extensive series of compounds.
[Formerly written also benzule.]

BENZYL
Ben"zyl, n. Etym: [Benzoic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound radical, C6H5.CH2, related to toluene and benzoic
acid; -- commonly used adjectively.

BEPAINT
Be*paint", v. t.

Defn: To paint; to cover or color with, or as with, paint.
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek. Shak.

BEPELT
Be*pelt", v. t.

Defn: To pelt roundly.

BEPINCH
Be*pinch", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bepinched.]

Defn: To pinch, or mark with pinches. Chapman.

BEPLASTER
Be*plas"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beplastered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Beplastering.]

Defn: To plaster over; to cover or smear thickly; to bedaub.
Beplastered with rouge. Goldsmith.

BEPLUMED
Be*plumed", a.

Defn: Decked with feathers.

BEPOMMEL
Be*pom"mel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bepommeled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bepommeling.]

Defn: To pommel; to beat, as with a stick; figuratively, to assail or
criticise in conversation, or in writing. Thackeray.

BEPOWDER
Be*pow"der, v. t.

Defn: To sprinkle or cover with powder; to powder.

BEPRAISE
Be*praise", v. t.

Defn: To praise greatly or extravagantly. Goldsmith.

BEPROSE
Be*prose", v. t.

Defn: To reduce to prose. [R.] "To beprose all rhyme." Mallet.

BEPUFFED
Be*puffed", a.

Defn: Puffed; praised. Carlyle.

BEPURPLE
Be*pur"ple, v. t.

Defn: To tinge or dye with a purple color.

BEQUEATH
Be*queath", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bequeathed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bequeathing.] Etym: [OE. biquethen, AS. becwe to say, affirm,
bequeath; pref. be- + cwe to say, speak. See Quoth.]

1. To give or leave by will; to give by testament; -- said especially
of personal property.
My heritage, which my dead father did bequeath to me. Shak.

2. To hand down; to transmit.
To bequeath posterity somewhat to remember it. Glanvill.

3. To give; to offer; to commit. [Obs.]
To whom, with all submission, on my knee I do bequeath my faithful
services And true subjection everlastingly. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To Bequeath, Devise. Both these words denote the giving or
disposing of property by will. Devise, in legal usage, is property
used to denote a gift by will of real property, and he to whom it is
given is called the devisee. Bequeath is properly applied to a gift
by will or legacy; i. e., of personal property; the gift is called a
legacy, and he who receives it is called a legatee. In popular usage
the word bequeath is sometimes enlarged so as to embrace devise; and
it is sometimes so construed by courts.

BEQUEATHABLE
Be*queath"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being bequeathed.

BEQUEATHAL
Be*queath"al, n.

Defn: The act of bequeathing; bequeathment; bequest. Fuller.

BEQUEATHMENT
Be*queath"ment, n.

Defn: The act of bequeathing, or the state of being bequeathed; a
bequest.

BEQUEST
Be*quest", n. Etym: [OE. biquest, corrupted fr. bequide; pref. be- +
AS. cwide a saying, becwe to bequeath. The ending -est is probably
due to confusion with quest. See Bequeath, Quest.]

1. The act of bequeathing or leaving by will; as, a bequest of
property by A. to B.

2. That which is left by will, esp. personal property; a legacy;
also, a gift.

BEQUEST
Be*quest", v. t.

Defn: To bequeath, or leave as a legacy. [Obs.] "All I have to
bequest." Gascoigne.

BEQUETHEN
Be*queth"en,

Defn: old p. p. of Bequeath. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEQUOTE
Be*quote", v. t.

Defn: To quote constantly or with great frequency.

BERAIN
Be*rain, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Berained; p. pr. & vb. n. Beraining.]

Defn: To rain upon; to wet with rain. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BERATE
Be*rate", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Berated; p. pr. & vb. n. Berating.]

Defn: To rate or chide vehemently; to scold. Holland. Motley.

BERATTLE
Be*rat"tle (, v. t.

Defn: To make rattle; to scold vociferously; to cry down. [Obs.]
Shak.

BERAY
Be*ray" v.t. Etym: [Pref. be + ray to defile]

Defn: TO make foul; to soil; to defile. [Obs.] Milton.

BERBE
Berbe, n. Etym: [Cf. Berber, Barb a Barbary horse.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An African genet (Genetta pardina). See Genet.

BERBER
Ber"ber, n. Etym: [See Barbary.]

Defn: A member of a race somewhat resembling the Arabs, but often
classed as Hamitic, who were formerly the inhabitants of the whole of
North Africa from the Mediterranean southward into the Sahara, and
who still occupy a large part of that region; -- called also Kabyles.
Also, the language spoken by this people.

BERBERINE
Ber"ber*ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid obtained, as a bitter, yellow substance, from the
root of the barberry, gold thread, and other plants.

BERBERRY
Ber"ber*ry,n.

Defn: See Barberry.

BERCEUSE
Ber`ceuse", n. [F.] (Mus.)

Defn: A vocal or instrumental composition of a soft tranquil
character, having a lulling effect; a cradle song.

BERDASH
Ber"dash

Defn: ,n.A kind of neckcloth. [Obs.]
A treatise against the cravat and berdash. Steele.

BERE
Bere

Defn: , v. t. Etym: [Cf. OIcel. berja to strike.] To pierce. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

BERE
Bere

Defn: ,n.See Bear, barley. [Scot.]

BEREAVE
Be*reave" (, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bereaved (, Bereft (; p. pr. & vb.
n. Bereaving.] Etym: [OE. bireven, AS. bereáfian. See Be-, and
Reave.]

1. To make destitute; to deprive; to strip; -- with of before the
person or thing taken away.
Madam, you have bereft me of all words. Shak.
Bereft of him who taught me how to sing. Tickell.

2. To take away from. [Obs.]
All your interest in those territories Is utterly bereft you; all is
lost. Shak.

3. To take away. [Obs.]
Shall move you to bereave my life. Marlowe.

Note: The imp. and past pple. form bereaved is not used in reference
to immaterial objects. We say bereaved or bereft by death of a
relative, bereft of hope and strength.

Syn.
 -- To dispossess; to divest.

BEREAVEMENT
Be*reave"ment, n.

Defn: The state of being bereaved; deprivation; esp., the loss of a
relative by death.

BEREAVER
Be*reav"er, n.

Defn: One who bereaves.

BEREFT
Be*reft", imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Bereave.

BERENICE'S HAIR
Ber`e*ni"ce's Hair`. [See Berenice's, Locks, in Dictionary of Noted
Names in Fiction.] (Astron.)

Defn: See Coma Berenices, under Coma.

BERETTA
Be*ret"ta, n.

Defn: Same as Berretta.

BERG
Berg, n. Etym: [sq. root95. See Barrow hill, and cf. Iceberg.]

Defn: A large mass or hill, as of ice.
Glittering bergs of ice. Tennyson
.

BERGAMOT
Ber"ga*mot, n. Etym: [F. bergamote, fr. It. bergamotta; prob. a
corruption of Turk. beg arm

1 . (Bot.)
(a) A tree of the Orange family (Citrus bergamia), having a roundish
or pear-shaped fruit, from the rind of which an essential oil of
delicious odor is extracted, much prized as a perfume. Also, the
fruit. (b) A variety of mint (Mentha aquatica, var. glabrata).

2. The essence or perfume made from the fruit.

3. A variety of pear. Johnson.

4. A variety of snuff perfumed with bergamot.
The better hand . . . gives the nose its bergamot. Cowper
.

5. A coarse tapestry, manufactured from flock of cotton or hemp,
mixed with ox's or goat's hair; -- said to have been invented at
Bergamo, Italy. Encyc. Brit. Wild bergamot (Bot.), an American herb
of the Mint family (Monarda fistulosa).

BERGANDER
Ber"gan*der, n. Etym: [Berg, for burrow + gander a male goose Cf. G.
bergente, Dan. gravgaas.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A European duck (Anas tadorna). See Sheldrake.

BERGERET
Ber"ger*et, n. Etym: [OF. bergerete, F. berger a shepherd.]

Defn: A pastoral song. [Obs.]

BERGH
Bergh, n. Etym: [AS. beorg.]

Defn: A hill. [Obs.]

BERGMASTER
Berg"mas`ter, n.

Defn: See Barmaster.

BERGMEAL
Berg"meal, n. Etym: [G. berg mountain + mehl meal.]

Defn: (Min.) An earthy substance, resembling fine flour. It is
composed of the shells of infusoria, and in Lapland and Sweden is
sometimes eaten, mixed with flour or ground birch bark, in times of
scarcity. This name is also given to a white powdery variety of
calcite.

BERGMOTE
Berg"mote, n.

Defn: See Barmote.

BERGOMASK
Ber"go*mask, n.

Defn: A rustic dance, so called in ridicule of the people of Bergamo,
in Italy, once noted for their clownishness.

BERGSCHRUND
Berg"schrund`, n. [G., lit., mountain gap.] (Phys. Geog.)

Defn: The crevasse or series of crevasses, usually deep and often
broad, frequently occurring near the head of a mountain glacier,
about where the névé field joins the valley portion of the glacier.

BERGSTOCK
Berg"stock`, n. [G., lit., mountain stick.]

Defn: A long pole with a spike at the end, used in climbing
mountains; an alpenstock.

BERGYLT
Ber"gylt, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Norway haddock. See Rosefish.

BERHYME
Be*rhyme" (, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Berhymed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Berhyming.]

Defn: To mention in rhyme or verse; to rhyme about.

Note: [Sometimes use depreciatively.] Shak.

BERIBERI
Be`ri*be"ri, n. Etym: [Singhalese beri weakness.]

Defn: An acute disease occurring in India, characterized by multiple
inflammatory changes in the nerves, producing great muscular
debility, a painful rigidity of the limbs, and cachexy.

BERIME
Be*rime" (, v. t.

Defn: To berhyme.

Note: [The earlier and etymologically preferable spelling.]

BERING SEA CONTROVERSY
Be"ring Sea Controversy.

Defn: A controversy (1886 --93) between Great Britain and the United
States as to the right of Canadians not licensed by the United States
to carry on seal fishing in the Bering Sea, over which the United
States claimed jurisdiction as a mare clausum. A court of
arbitration, meeting in Paris in 1893, decided against the claim of
the United States, but established regulations for the preservation
of the fur seal.

BERKELEIAN
Berke*le"ian

Defn: ,a.Of or relating to Bishop Berkeley or his system of idealism;
as, Berkeleian philosophy.
 -- Berke"ley*ism, n.

BERLIN
Ber"lin, n. Etym: [The capital of Prussia]

1. A four-wheeled carriage, having a sheltered seat behind the body
and separate from it, invented in the 17th century, at Berlin.

2. Fine worsted for fancy-work; zephyr worsted; -- called also Berlin
wool. Berlin black, a black varnish, drying with almost a dead
surface; -- used for coating the better kinds of ironware. Ure.
 -- Berlin blue, Prussian blue. Ure.
 -- Berlin green, a complex cyanide of iron, used as a green dye, and
similar to Prussian blue.
 -- Berlin iron, a very fusible variety of cast iron, from which
figures and other delicate articles are manufactured. These are often
stained or lacquered in imitation of bronze.
 -- Berlin shop, a shop for the sale of worsted embroidery and the
materials for such work.
 -- Berlin work, worsted embroidery.

BERM; BERME
Berm Berme, n. Etym: [F. berme, of German origin; cf. G. brame,
bräme, border, akin to E. brim.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and the
ditch.

2. (Engineering)

Defn: A ledge at the bottom of a bank or cutting, to catch earth that
may roll down the slope, or to strengthen the bank.

BERMUDA GRASS
Ber*mu"da grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of grass (Cynodon Dactylon) esteemed for pasture in the
Southern United States. It is a native of Southern Europe, but is now
wide-spread in warm countries; -- called also scutch grass, and in
Bermuda, devil grass.

BERMUDA LILY
Ber*mu"da lil"y. (Bot.)

Defn: The large white lily (Lilium longiflorum eximium, syn. L.
Harrisii) which is extensively cultivated in Bermuda.

BERNACLE
Ber"na*cle, n.

Defn: See Barnacle.

BERNA FLY
Ber"na fly`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A Brazilian dipterous insect of the genus Trypeta, which lays
its eggs in the nostrils or in wounds of man and beast, where the
larvæ do great injury.

BERNARDINE
Ber"nar*dine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to St. Bernard of Clairvaux, or to the
Cistercian monks.
 -- n.

Defn: A Cistercian monk.

BERNESE
Ber*nese", a.

Defn: Pertaining to the city o -- n. sing. & pl.

Defn: A native or natives of Bern.

BERNICLE
Ber"ni*cle, n. Etym: [OE. bernak, bernacle; cf. OF. bernac; prob. fr.
LL. bernacula for hibernicula, bernicula, fr. Hibernia; the birds
coming from Hibernia or Ireland. Cf. 1st Barnacle.]

Defn: A bernicle goose. [Written also barnacle.] Bernicle goose
(Zoöl.), a goose (Branta leucopsis), of Arctic Europe and America. It
was formerly believed that it hatched from the cirripeds of the sea
(Lepas), which were, therefore, called barnacles, goose barnacles, or
Anatifers. The name is also applied to other related species. See
Anatifa and Cirripedia.

BERNOUSE
Ber*nouse", n.

Defn: Some as Burnoose.

BEROB
Be*rob", v. t.

Defn: To rob; to plunder. [Obs.]

BEROE
Ber"o*e, n. Etym: [L. Beroe, one of the Oceanidæ Gr. : cf. F. beroé.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, oval, transparent jellyfish, belonging to the
Ctenophora.

BERRETTA
Ber*ret"ta, n. Etym: [It., fr. LL. birrettum, berretum, a cap, dim.
of L. birrus, birrum, a cloak to keep off rain, cf. Gr. tawny, red:
cf. Sp. birreta, Pg. barrete, and E. Barret.]

Defn: A square cap worn by ecclesiastics of the Roman Catholic
Church. A cardinal's berretta is scarlet; that worn by other clerics
is black, except that a bishop's is lined with green. [Also spelt
beretta, biretta, etc.]

BERRIED
Ber"ried, a.

Defn: Furnished with berries; consisting of a berry; baccate; as, a
berried shrub.

BERRY
Ber"ry, n.; pl. Berries. Etym: [OE. berie, AS. berie, berige; akin to
D. bes, G. beere, OS. and OHG. beri, Icel. ber, Sw. bär, Goth. basi,
and perh. Skr. bhas to eat.]

1. Any small fleshy fruit, as the strawberry, mulberry, huckleberry,
etc.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A small fruit that is pulpy or succulent throughout, having
seeds loosely imbedded in the pulp, as the currant, grape, blueberry.

3. The coffee bean.

4. One of the ova or eggs of a fish. Travis. In berry, containing ova
or spawn.

BERRY
Ber"ry, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Berried; p. pr. & vb. n. Berrying.]

Defn: To bear or produce berries.

BERRY
Ber"ry, n. Etym: [AS. beorh. See Barrow a hill.]

Defn: A mound; a hillock. W. Browne.

BERRYING
Ber"ry*ing, n.

Defn: A seeking for or gathering of berries, esp. of such as grow
wild.

BERSEEM
Ber*seem", n. [Ar. bershim clover.]

Defn: An Egyptian clover (Trifolium alexandrinum) extensively
cultivated as a forage plant and soil-renewing crop in the alkaline
soils of the Nile valley, and now introduced into the southwestern
United States. It is more succulent than other clovers or than
alfalfa. Called also Egyptian clover.

BERSERK; BERSERKER
Ber"serk, Ber"serk*er, n. Etym: [Icel. berserkr.]

1. (Scand. Myth.)

Defn: One of a class of legendary heroes, who fought frenzied by
intoxicating liquors, and naked, regardless of wounds. Longfellow.

2. One who fights as if frenzied, like a Berserker.

BERSTLE
Bers"tle, n.

Defn: See Bristle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BERTH
Berth, n. Etym: [From the root of bear to produce, like birth
nativity. See Birth.] [Also written birth.]

1. (Naut.)
(a) Convenient sea room.
(b) A room in which a number of the officers or ship's company mess
and reside.
(c) The place where a ship lies when she is at anchor, or at a wharf.

2. An allotted place; an appointment; situation or employment. "He
has a good berth." Totten.

3. A place in a ship to sleep in; a long box or shelf on the side of
a cabin or stateroom, or of a railway car, for sleeping in. Berth
deck, the deck next below the lower gun deck. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- To give (the land or any object) a wide berth, to keep at a
distance from it.

BERTH
Berth, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Berthed; p. pr. & vb. n. Berthing.]

1. To give an anchorage to, or a place to lie at; to place in a
berth; as, she was berthed stem to stern with the Adelaide.

2. To allot or furnish berths to, on shipboard; as, to berth a ship's
company. Totten.

BERTHA
Ber"tha, n. Etym: [F. berthe, fr. Berthe, a woman's name.]

Defn: A kind of collar or cape worn by ladies.

BERTHAGE
Berth"age, n.

Defn: A place for mooring vessels in a dock or harbor.

BERTHIERITE
Ber"thi*er*ite, n. Etym: [From Berthier, a French naturalist.] (Min.)

Defn: A double sulphide of antimony and iron, of a dark steel-gray
color.

BERTHING
Berth"ing, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The planking outside of a vessel, above the sheer strake.
Smyth.

BERTILLON SYSTEM
Ber`til`lon" sys"tem. [After Alphonse Bertillon, French
anthropologist.]

Defn: A system for the identification of persons by a physical
description based upon anthropometric measurements, notes of
markings, deformities, color, impression of thumb lines, etc.

BERTRAM
Ber"tram, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. L. pyrethrum, Gr. a hot spicy
plant, fr. fire.] (Bot.)

Defn: Pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum).

BERYCOID
Ber"y*coid, a. Etym: [NL. beryx, the name of the typical genus + -
oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Berycidæ, a family of marine fishes.

BERYL
Ber"yl, n. Etym: [F. béryl, OF. beril, L. beryllus, Gr. , prob. fr.
Skr. vaid. Cf. Brilliant.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of great hardness, and, when transparent, of much
beauty. It occurs in hexagonal prisms, commonly of a green or bluish
green color, but also yellow, pink, and white. It is a silicate of
aluminium and glucinum (beryllium). The aquamarine is a transparent,
sea-green variety used as a gem. The emerald is another variety
highly prized in jewelry, and distinguished by its deep color, which
is probably due to the presence of a little oxide of chromium.

BERYLLINE
Ber"yl*line, a.

Defn: Like a beryl; of a light or bluish green color.

BERYLLIUM
Be*ryl"li*um (, n. Etym: [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: A metallic element found in the beryl. See Glucinum.

BERYLLOID
Ber"yl*loid, n. Etym: [Beryl + -oid.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: A solid consisting of a double twelve-sided pyramid; -- so
called because the planes of this form occur on crystals of beryl.

BESAIEL; BESAILE; BESAYLE
Be*saiel", Be*saile", Be*sayle" (, n. Etym: [OF. beseel, F. bisaïeul,
fr. L. bis twice + LL. avolus, dim. of L. avus grandfather.]

1. A great-grandfather. [Obs.]

2. (Law)

Defn: A kind of writ which formerly lay where a great-grandfather
died seized of lands in fee simple, and on the day of his death a
stranger abated or entered and kept the heir out. This is now
abolished. Blackstone.

BESAINT
Be*saint", v. t.

Defn: To make a saint of.

BESANT
Be*sant", n.

Defn: See Bezant.

BES-ANTLER
Bes-ant"ler, n.

Defn: Same as Bez-antler.

BESCATTER
Be*scat"ter, v. t.

1. To scatter over.

2. To cover sparsely by scattering (something); to strew. "With
flowers bescattered." Spenser.

BESCORN
Be*scorn", v. t.

Defn: To treat with scorn. "Then was he bescorned." Chaucer.

BESCRATCH
Be*scratch", v. t.

Defn: To tear with the nails; to cover with scratches.

BESCRAWL
Be*scrawl", v. t.

Defn: To cover with scrawls; to scribble over. Milton.

BESCREEN
Be*screen", v. t.

Defn: To cover with a screen, or as with a screen; to shelter; to
conceal. Shak.

BESCRIBBLE
Be*scrib"ble, v. t.

Defn: To scribble over. "Bescribbled with impertinences." Milton.

BESCUMBER; BESCUMMER
Be*scum"ber, Be*scum"mer, v. t. Etym: [Pref. be- + scumber, scummer.]

Defn: To discharge ordure or dung upon. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BESEE
Be*see", v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. beseón; pref. be- + to see.]

Defn: To see; to look; to mind. [Obs.] Wyclif.

BESEECH
Be*seech", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Besought; p. pr. & vb. n. Beseeching.]
Etym: [OE. bisechen, biseken (akin to G. besuchen to visit); pref.
be- + sechen, seken, to seek. See Seek.]

1. To ask or entreat with urgency; to supplicate; to implore.
I beseech you, punish me not with your hard thoughts. Shak.
But Eve . . . besought his peace. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To beg; to crave.
 -- To Beseech, Entreat, Solicit, Implore, Supplicate. These words
agree in marking that sense of want which leads men to beg some
favor. To solicit is to make a request, with some degree of
earnestness and repetition, of one whom we address as a superior. To
entreat implies greater urgency, usually enforced by adducing reasons
or arguments. To beseech is still stronger, and belongs rather to the
language of poetry and imagination. To implore denotes increased
fervor of entreaty, as addressed either to equals or superiors. To
supplicate expresses the extreme of entreaty, and usually implies a
state of deep humiliation. Thus, a captive supplicates a conqueror to
spare his life. Men solicit by virtue of their interest with another;
they entreat in the use of reasoning and strong representations; they
beseech with importunate earnestness; they implore from a sense of
overwhelming distress; they supplicate with a feeling of the most
absolute inferiority and dependence.

BESEECH
Be*seech", n.

Defn: Solicitation; supplication. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak.

BESEECHER
Be*seech"er, n.

Defn: One who beseeches.

BESEECHING
Be*seech"ing, a.

Defn: Entreating urgently; imploring; as, a beseeching look.
 -- Be*seech"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Be*seech"ing*ness, n.

BESEECHMENT
Be*seech"ment, n.

Defn: The act of beseeching or entreating earnestly. [R.] Goodwin.

BESEEK
Be*seek", v. t.

Defn: To beseech. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BESEEM
Be*seem", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beseemed; p. pr. & vb. n. Beseeming.]
Etym: [Pref. be- + seem.]

Defn: Literally: To appear or seem (well, ill, best, etc.) for (one)
to do or to have. Hence: To be fit, suitable, or proper for, or
worthy of; to become; to befit.
A duty well beseeming the preachers. Clarendon.
What form of speech or behavior beseemeth us, in our prayers to God
Hocker.

BESEEM
Be*seem", v. i.

Defn: To seem; to appear; to be fitting. [Obs.] "As beseemed best."
Spenser.

BESEEMING
Be*seem"ing, n.

1. Appearance; look; garb. [Obs.]
I . . . did company these three in poor beseeming. Shak.

2. Comeliness. Baret.

BESEEMING
Be*seem"ing, a.

Defn: Becoming; suitable. [Archaic] -- Be*seem"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Be*seem"ing*ness, n.

BESEEMLY
Be*seem"ly, a.

Defn: Fit; suitable; becoming. [Archaic]
In beseemly order sitten there. Shenstone.

BESEEN
Be*seen", a. Etym: [Properly the p. p. of besee.]

1. Seen; appearing. [Obs. or Archaic]

2. Decked or adorned; clad. [Archaic] Chaucer.

3. Accomplished; versed. [Archaic] Spenser.

BESET
Be*set", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beset; p. pr. & vb. n. Besetting.] Etym:
[AS. besettan (akin to OHG. bisazjan, G. besetzen, D. bezetten);
pref. be- + settan to set. See Set.]

1. To set or stud (anything) with ornaments or prominent objects.
A robe of azure beset with drops of gold. Spectator.
The garden is so beset with all manner of sweet shrubs that it
perfumes the air. Evelyn.

2. To hem in; to waylay; to surround; to besiege; to blockade. "Beset
with foes." Milton.
Let thy troops beset our gates. Addison.

3. To set upon on all sides; to perplex; to harass; -- said of
dangers, obstacles, etc. "Adam, sore beset, replied." Milton. "Beset
with ills." Addison. "Incommodities which beset old age." Burke.

4. To occupy; to employ; to use up. [Obs.] Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- To surround; inclose; environ; hem in; besiege; encircle;
encompass; embarrass; urge; press.

BESETMENT
Be*set"ment, n.

Defn: The act of besetting, or the state of being beset; also, that
which besets one, as a sin. "Fearing a besetment." Kane.

BESETTER
Be*set"ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, besets.

BESETTING
Be*set"ting, a.

Defn: Habitually attacking, harassing, or pressing upon or about; as,
a besetting sin.

BESHINE
Be*shine", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beshone; p. pr. & vb. n. Beshining.]

Defn: To shine upon; to ullumine.

BESHOW
Be*show", n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large food fish (Anoplopoma fimbria) of the north Pacific
coast; -- called also candlefish.

BESHREW
Be*shrew", v. t.

Defn: To curse; to execrate.
Beshrew me, but I love her heartily. Shak.

Note: Often a very mild form of imprecation; sometimes so far from
implying a curse, as to be uttered coaxingly, nay even with some
tenderness. Schmidt.

BESHROUD
Be*shroud", v. t.

Defn: To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to screen.

BESHUT
Be*shut", v. t.

Defn: To shut up or out. [Obs.]

BESIDE
Be*side", prep. Etym: [OE. biside, bisiden, bisides, prep. and adv.,
beside, besides; pref. be- by + side. Cf. Besides, and see Side, n.]

1. At the side of; on one side of. "Beside him hung his bow." Milton.

2. Aside from; out of the regular course or order of; in a state of
deviation from; out of.
[You] have done enough To put him quite beside his patience. Shak.

3. Over and above; distinct from; in addition to.

Note: [In this use besides is now commoner.]
Wise and learned men beside those whose names are in the Christian
records. Addison.
To be beside one's self, to be out ob one's wits or senses.
Paul, thou art beside thyself. Acts xxvi. 24.

Syn.
 -- Beside, Besides. These words, whether used as prepositions or
adverbs, have been considered strictly synonymous, from an early
period of our literature, and have been freely interchanged by our
best writers. There is, however, a tendency, in present usage, to
make the following distinction between them: 1. That beside be used
only and always as a preposition, with the original meaning "by the
side of; " as, to sit beside a fountain; or with the closely allied
meaning "aside from", "apart from", or "out of"; as, this is beside
our present purpose; to be beside one's self with joy. The adverbial
sense to be wholly transferred to the cognate word. 2. That besides,
as a preposition, take the remaining sense "in addition to", as,
besides all this; besides the considerations here offered. "There was
a famine in the land besides the first famine." Gen. xxvi. 1. And
that it also take the adverbial sense of "moreover", "beyond", etc.,
which had been divided between the words; as, besides, there are
other considerations which belong to this case. The following
passages may serve to illustrate this use of the words: --
Lovely Thais sits beside thee. Dryden.
Only be patient till we have appeased The multitude, beside
themselves with fear. Shak.
It is beside my present business to enlarge on this speculation.
Locke.
Besides this, there are persons in certain situations who are
expected to be charitable. Bp. Porteus.
And, besides, the Moor May unfold me to him; there stand I in much
peril. Shak.
That man that does not know those things which are of necessity for
him to know is but an ignorant man, whatever he may know besides.
Tillotson.

Note: See Moreover.

BESIDES; BESIDE
Be*sides", Be*side", adv. Etym: [OE. Same as beside, prep.; the
ending -s is an adverbial one, prop. a genitive sign.]

1. On one side. [Obs.] Chaucer. Shak.

2. More than that; over and above; not included in the number, or in
what has been mentioned; moreover; in addition.
The men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides Gen. xix. 12.
To all beside, as much an empty shade, An Eugene living, as a Cæsar
dead. Pope.

Note: These sentences may be considered as elliptical.

BESIDES
Be*sides, prep.

Defn: Over and above; separate or distinct from; in addition to;
other than; else than. See Beside, prep., 3, and Syn. under Beside.
Besides your cheer, you shall have sport. Shak.

BESIEGE
Be*siege", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Besieged; p. pr. & vb. n. Besieging.]
Etym: [OE. bisegen; pref. be- + segen to siege. See Siege.]

Defn: To beset or surround with armed forces, for the purpose of
compelling to surrender; to lay siege to; to beleaguer; to beset.
Till Paris was besieged, famished, and lost. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To environ; hem in; invest; encompass.

BESIEGEMENT
Be*siege"ment, n.

Defn: The act of besieging, or the state of being besieged. Golding.

BESIEGER
Be*sie"ger, n.

Defn: One who besieges; -- opposed to the besieged.

BESIEGING
Be*sie"ging, a.

Defn: That besieges; laying siege to.
 -- Be*sie"ging*ly, adv.

BESIT
Be*sit", v. t. Etym: [Pref. be- + sit.]

Defn: To suit; to fit; to become. [Obs.]

BESLABBER
Be*slab"ber, v. t.

Defn: To beslobber.

BESLAVE
Be*slave", v. t.

Defn: To enslave. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

BESLAVER
Be*slav"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beslavered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Beslavering.]

Defn: To defile with slaver; to beslobber.

BESLIME
Be*slime", v. t.

Defn: To daub with slime; to soil. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BESLOBBER
Be*slob"ber, v. t.

Defn: To slobber on; to smear with spittle running from the mouth.
Also Fig.: as, to beslobber with praise.

BESLUBBER
Be*slub"ber, v. t.

Defn: To beslobber.

BESMEAR
Be*smear", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Besmeared; p. pr. & vb. n.
Besmearing.]

Defn: To smear with any viscous, glutinous matter; to bedaub; to
soil.
Besmeared with precious balm. Spenser.

BESMEARER
Be*smear"er, n.

Defn: One that besmears.

BESMIRCH
Be*smirch", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Besmirched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Besmirching.]

Defn: To smirch or soil; to discolor; to obscure. Hence: To dishonor;
to sully. Shak.

BESMOKE
Be*smoke", v. t.

1. To foul with smoke.

2. To harden or dry in smoke. Johnson.

BESMUT
Be*smut", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Besmutted; p. pr. & vb. n. Besmutting.]
Etym: [Pref. be- + smut: cf. AS. besmitan, and also OE. besmotren.]

Defn: To blacken with smut; to foul with soot.

BESNOW
Be*snow", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Besnowed.] Etym: [OE. bisnewen, AS.
besniwan; pref. be- + sniwan to snow.]

1. To scatter like snow; to cover thick, as with snow flakes. [R.]
Gower.

2. To cover with snow; to whiten with snow, or as with snow.

BESNUFF
Be*snuff", v. t.

Defn: To befoul with snuff. Young.

BESOGNE
Be*sogne", n. Etym: [F. bisogne.]

Defn: A worthless fellow; a bezonian. [Obs.]

BESOM
Be"som, n. Etym: [OE. besme, besum, AS. besma; akin to D. bezem, OHG
pesamo, G. besen; of uncertain origin.]

Defn: A brush of twigs for sweeping; a broom; anything which sweeps
away or destroys. [Archaic or Fig.]
I will sweep it with the besom of destruction. Isa. xiv. 23.
The housemaid with her besom. W. Irving.

BESOM
Be"som, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Besomed.]

Defn: To sweep, as with a besom. [Archaic or Poetic] Cowper.
Rolls back all Greece, and besoms wide the plain. Barlow.

BESOMER
Be"som*er, n.

Defn: One who uses a besom. [Archaic]

BESORT
Be*sort", v. t.

Defn: To assort or be congruous with; to fit, or become. [Obs.]
Such men as may besort your age. Shak.

BESORT
Be*sort", n.

Defn: Befitting associates or attendants. [Obs.]
With such accommodation and besort As levels with her breeding. Shak.

BESOT
Be*sot", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Besotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Besotting.]

Defn: To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; to
infatuate.
Fools besotted with their crimes. Hudibras.

BESOTTED
Be*sot"ted, a.

Defn: Made sottish, senseless, or infatuated; characterized by
drunken stupidity, or by infatuation; stupefied. "Besotted devotion."
Sir W. Scott.
 -- Be*sot"ted*ly, adv.
 -- Be*sot"ted*ness, n. Milton.

BESOTTINGLY
Be*sot"ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In a besotting manner.

BESOUGHT
Be*sought", p. p.

Defn: of Beseech.

BESPANGLE
Be*span"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bespangled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bespangling.]

Defn: To adorn with spangles; to dot or sprinkle with something
brilliant or glittering.
The grass . . . is all bespangled with dewdrops. Cowper.

BESPATTER
Be*spat"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bespattered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bespattering.]

1. To soil by spattering; to sprinkle, esp. with dirty water, mud, or
anything which will leave foul spots or stains.

2. To asperse with calumny or reproach.
Whom never faction could bespatter. Swift.

BESPAWL
Be*spawl", v. t.

Defn: To daub, soil, or make foul with spawl or spittle. [Obs.]
Milton.

BESPEAK
Be*speak", v. t. [imp. Bespoke, Bespake (Archaic); p. p. Bespoke,
Bespoken (; p. pr. & vb. n. Bespeaking.] Etym: [OE. bispeken, AS.
besprecan, to speak to, accuse; pref. be- + sprecan to speak. See
Speak.]

1. To speak or arrange for beforehand; to order or engage against a
future time; as, to bespeak goods, a right, or a favor.
Concluding, naturally, that to gratify his avarice was to bespeak his
favor. Sir W. Scott.

2. To show beforehand; to foretell; to indicate.
[They] bespoke dangers . . . in order to scare the allies. Swift.

3. To betoken; to show; to indicate by external marks or appearances.
When the abbot of St. Martin was born, he had so little the figure of
a man that it bespoke him rather a monster. Locke.

4. To speak to; to address. [Poetic]
He thus the queen bespoke. Dryden.

BESPEAK
Be*speak", v. i.

Defn: To speak. [Obs.] Milton.

BESPEAK
Be*speak", n.

Defn: A bespeaking. Among actors, a benefit (when a particular play
is bespoken.) "The night of her bespeak." Dickens.

BESPEAKER
Be*speak"er, n.

Defn: One who bespeaks.

BESPECKLE
Be*spec"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bespeckled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bespeckling.]

Defn: To mark with speckles or spots. Milton.

BESPEW
Be*spew", v. t.

Defn: To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on.

BESPICE
Be*spice", v. t.

Defn: To season with spice, or with some spicy drug. Shak.

BESPIRT
Be*spirt", v. t.

Defn: Same as Bespurt.

BESPIT
Be*spit, v. t. [imp. Bespit; p. p. Bespit, Bespitten (; p. pr. & vb.
n. Bespitting.]

Defn: To daub or soil with spittle. Johnson.

BESPOKE
Be*spoke",

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Bespeak.

BESPOT
Be*spot", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bespotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Bespotting.]

Defn: To mark with spots, or as with spots.

BESPREAD
Be*spread", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bespread; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bespreading.]

Defn: To spread or cover over.
The carpet which bespread His rich pavilion's floor. Glover.

BESPRENT
Be*sprent", p. p. Etym: [OE. bespreynt, p. p. of besprengen,
bisprengen, to besprinkle, AS. besprengan, akin to D. & G.
besprengen; pref. be- + sprengan to sprinkle. See Sprinkle.]

Defn: Sprinkled over; strewed.
His face besprent with liquid crystal shines. Shenstone.
The floor with tassels of fir was besprent. Longfellow.

BESPRINKLE
Be*sprin"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Besprinkled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Besprinkling.]

Defn: To sprinkle over; to scatter over.
The bed besprinkles, and bedews the ground. Dryden.

BESPRINKLER
Be*sprin"kler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, besprinkles.

BESPRINKLING
Be*sprin"kling, n.

Defn: The act of sprinkling anything; a sprinkling over.

BESPURT
Be*spurt", v. t.

Defn: To spurt on or over; to asperse. [Obs.] Milton.

BESSEMER STEEL
Bes"se*mer steel` (.

Defn: Steel made directly from cast iron, by burning out a portion of
the carbon and other impurities that the latter contains, through the
agency of a blast of air which is forced through the molten metal; --
so called from Sir Henry Bessemer, an English engineer, the inventor
of the process.

BEST
Best, a.; superl. of Good. Etym: [AS. besta, best, contr. from
betest, betst, betsta; akin to Goth. batists, OHG. pezzisto, G. best,
beste, D. best, Icel. beztr, Dan. best, Sw. bäst. This word has no
connection in origin with good. See Better.]

1. Having good qualities in the highest degree; most good, kind,
desirable, suitable, etc.; most excellent; as, the best man; the best
road; the best cloth; the best abilities.
When he is best, he is a little worse than a man. Shak.
Heaven's last, best gift, my ever new delight. Milton.

2. Most advanced; most correct or complete; as, the best scholar; the
best view of a subject.

3. Most; largest; as, the best part of a week. Best man, the only or
principal groomsman at a wedding ceremony.

BEST
Best, n.

Defn: Utmost; highest endeavor or state; most nearly perfect thing,
or being, or action; as, to do one's best; to the best of our
ability. At best, in the utmost degree or extent applicable to the
case; under the most favorable circumstances; as, life is at best
very short.
 -- For best, finally. [Obs.] "Those constitutions . . . are now
established for best, and not to be mended." Milton.
 -- To get the best of, to gain an advantage over, whether fairly or
unfairly.
 -- To make the best of. (a) To improve to the utmost; to use or
dispose of to the greatest advantage. "Let there be freedom to carry
their commodities where they can make the best of them." Bacon. (b)
To reduce to the least possible inconvenience; as, to make the best
of ill fortune or a bad bargain.

BEST
Best, adv.; superl. of Well.

1. In the highest degree; beyond all others. "Thou serpent! That name
best befits thee." Milton.
He prayeth best, who loveth best All things both great and small.
Coleridge.

2. To the most advantage; with the most success, case, profit,
benefit, or propriety.
Had we best retire I see a storm. Milton.
Had I not best go to her Thackeray.

3. Most intimately; most thoroughly or correctly; as, what is
expedient is best known to himself.

BEST
Best, v. t.

Defn: To get the better of. [Colloq.]

BESTAD
Be*stad", imp. & p. p. of Bestead.

Defn: Beset; put in peril. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BESTAIN
Be*stain", v. t.

Defn: To stain.

BESTAR
Be*star", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bestarred.]

Defn: To sprinkle with, or as with, stars; to decorate with, or as
with, stars; to bestud. "Bestarred with anemones." W. Black.

BESTEAD
Be*stead", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bestead or Bested, also (Obs.) Bestad.
In sense 3 imp. also Besteaded.] Etym: [Pref. be- + stead a place.]

1. To put in a certain situation or condition; to circumstance; to
place. [Only in p. p.]
They shall pass through it, hardly bestead and hungry: . . . and
curse their king and their God. Is. viii. 21.
Many far worse bestead than ourselves. Barrow.

2. To put in peril; to beset.

Note: [Only in p. p.] Chaucer.

3. To serve; to assist; to profit; to avail. Milton.

BESTIAL
Bes"tial, a. Etym: [F. bestial, L. bestialis, fr. bestia beast. See
Beast.]

1. Belonging to a beast, or to the class of beasts.
Among the bestial herds to range. Milton.

2. Having the qualities of a beast; brutal; below the dignity of
reason or humanity; irrational; carnal; beastly; sensual. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Brutish; beastly; brutal; carnal; vile; low; depraved; sensual;
filthy.

BESTIAL
Bes"tial, n.

Defn: A domestic animal; also collectively, cattle; as, other kinds
of bestial. [Scot.]

BESTIALITY
Bes*tial"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. bestialité.]

1. The state or quality of being bestial.

2. Unnatural connection with a beast.

BESTIALIZE
Bes"tial*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bestialized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bestializing.]

Defn: To make bestial, or like a beast; to degrade; to brutalize.
The process of bestializing humanity. Hare.

BESTIALLY
Bes"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a bestial manner.

BESTIARY
Bes"ti*a*ry, n. [LL. bestiarium, fr. L. bestiarius pert. to beasts,
fr. bestia beast: cf. F. bestiaire.]

Defn: A treatise on beasts; esp., one of the moralizing or
allegorical beast tales written in the Middle Ages.

A bestiary . . . in itself one of the numerous mediæval renderings of
the fantastic mystical zoölogy.
Saintsbury.

BESTICK
Be*stick", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bestuck; p. pr. & vb. n. Besticking.]

Defn: To stick over, as with sharp points pressed in; to mark by
infixing points or spots here and there; to pierce.
Truth shall retire Bestuck with slanderous darts. Milton.

BESTILL
Be*still", v. t.

Defn: To make still.

BESTIR
Be*stir", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bestirred; p. pr. & vb. n. Bestirring.]

Defn: To put into brisk or vigorous action; to move with life and
vigor; -- usually with the reciprocal pronoun.
You have so bestirred your valor. Shak.
Rouse and bestir themselves ere well awake. Milton.

BESTORM
Be*storm", v. i. & t.

Defn: To storm. Young.

BESTOW
Be*stow", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bestowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Bestowing.]
Etym: [OE. bestowen; pref. be- + stow a place. See Stow.]

1. To lay up in store; to deposit for safe keeping; to stow; to
place; to put. "He bestowed it in a pouch." Sir W. Scott.
See that the women are bestowed in safety. Byron.

2. To use; to apply; to devote, as time or strength in some
occupation.

3. To expend, as money. [Obs.]

4. To give or confer; to impart; -- with on or upon.
Empire is on us bestowed. Cowper.
Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor. 1 Cor. xiii. 3.

5. To give in marriage.
I could have bestowed her upon a fine gentleman. Tatler.

6. To demean; to conduct; to behave; -- followed by a reflexive
pronoun. [Obs.]
How might we see Falstaff bestow himself to-night in his true colors,
and not ourselves be seen Shak.

Syn.
 -- To give; grant; present; confer; accord.

BESTOWAL
Be*stow"al, n.

Defn: The act of bestowing; disposal.

BESTOWER
Be*stow"er, n.

Defn: One that bestows.

BESTOWMENT
Be*stow"ment, n.

1. The act of giving or bestowing; a conferring or bestowal.
If we consider this bestowment of gifts in this view. Chauncy.

2. That which is given or bestowed.
They almost refuse to give due praise and credit to God's own
bestowments. I. Taylor.

BESTRADDLE
Be*strad"dle, v. t.

Defn: To bestride.

BESTRAUGHT
Be*straught", a. Etym: [Pref. be- + straught; prob. here used for
distraught.]

Defn: Out of one's senses; distracted; mad. [Obs.] Shak.

BESTREAK
Be*streak", v. t.

Defn: To streak.

BESTREW
Be*strew", v. t. [imp. Bestrewed; p. p. Bestrewed, Bestrown (p. pr. &
vb. n. Bestrewing.]

Defn: To strew or scatter over; to besprinkle. [Spelt also bestrow.]
Milton.

BESTRIDE
Be*stride", v. t. [imp. Bestrode, (Obs. or R.) Bestrid (; p. p.
Bestridden, Bestrid, Bestrode; p. pr. & vb. n. Bestriding.] Etym:
[AS. bestridan; pref. be- + stridan to stride.]

1. To stand or sit with anything between the legs, or with the legs
astride; to stand over
That horse that thou so often hast bestrid. Shak.
Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world Like a Colossus. Shak.

2. To step over; to stride over or across; as, to bestride a
threshold.

BESTRODE
Be*strode",

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Bestride.

BESTROWN
Be*strown",

Defn: p. p. of Bestrew.

BESTUCK
Be*stuck",

Defn: imp. & p. p. Bestick.

BESTUD
Be*stud", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bestudded; p. pr. & vb. n. Bestudding.]

Defn: To set or adorn, as with studs or bosses; to set thickly; to
stud; as, to bestud with stars. Milton.

BESWIKE
Be*swike", v. t. Etym: [AS. beswican; be- + swican to deceive,
entice; akin to OS. swikan, OHG. swihhan, Icel. svikja.]

Defn: To lure; to cheat. [Obs.] Gower.

BET
Bet, n. Etym: [Prob. from OE. abet abetting, OF. abet, fr. abeter to
excite, incite. See Abet.]

Defn: That which is laid, staked, or pledged, as between two parties,
upon the event of a contest or any contingent issue; the act of
giving such a pledge; a wager. "Having made his bets." Goldsmith.

BET
Bet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bet, Betted; p. pr. & vb. n. Betting.]

Defn: To stake or pledge upon the event of a contingent issue; to
wager.
John a Gaunt loved him well, and betted much money on his head. Shak.
I'll bet you two to one I'll make him do it. O. W. Holmes.

BET
Bet,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Beat. [Obs.]

BET
Bet, a. & adv.

Defn: An early form of Better. [Obs.] To go bet, to go fast; to
hurry. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BETA
Be"ta, n. [Gr. bh	a.]

Defn: The second letter of the Greek alphabet, B, b. See B, and cf.
etymology of Alphabet. Beta (B, b) is used variously for classifying,
as:
 (a) (Astron.) To designate some bright star, usually the second
brightest, of a constellation, as, b Aurigæ.
 (b) (Chem.) To distinguish one of two or more isomers; also, to
indicate the position of substituting atoms or groups in certain
compounds; as, b-naphthol. With acids, it commonly indicates that the
substituent is in union with the carbon atom next to that to which
the carboxyl group is attached.

BETACISM; BETACISMUS
Be"ta*cism,  Be`ta*cis"mus, n.

Defn: Excessive or extended use of the b sound in speech, due to
conversion of other sounds into it, as through inability to
distinguish them from  b, or because of difficulty in pronouncing
them.

BETAINE
Be"ta*ine, n. Etym: [From beta, generic name of the beet.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous base, C5H11NO2, produced artificially, and also
occurring naturally in beetroot molasses and its residues, from which
it is extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- called also
lycine and oxyneurine. It has a sweetish taste.

BETAKE
Be*take", v. t. [imp. Betook; p. p. Betaken; p. pr. & vb. n.
Betaking.] Etym: [Pref. be- + take.]

1. To take or seize. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To have recourse to; to apply; to resort; to go; -- with a
reflexive pronoun.
They betook themselves to treaty and submission. Burke.
The rest, in imitation, to like arms Betook them. Milton.
Whither shall I betake me, where subsist Milton.

3. To commend or intrust to; to commit to. [Obs.]

BETA RAYS
Be"ta rays. (Physics)

Defn: Penetrating rays readily deflected by a magnetic or electric
field, emitted by radioactive substances, as radium. They consist of
negatively charged particles or electrons, apparently the same in
kind as those of the cathode rays, but having much higher velocities
(about 35,000 to 180,000 miles per second).

BETAUGHT
Be*taught",a. Etym: [p. p. of OE. bitechen, AS. bet, to assign,
deliver. See Teach.]

Defn: Delivered; committed in trust. [Obs.]

BETE
Bete, v. t.

Defn: To better; to mend. See Beete. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BETEELA
Be*tee"la, n. Etym: [Pg. beatilha.]

Defn: An East India muslin, formerly used for cravats, veils, etc.
[Obs.]

BETEEM
Be*teem", v. t. Etym: [Pref. be- + an old verb teem to be fitting;
cf. D. betamen to beseem, G. ziemen, Goth. gatiman, and E. tame. See
Tame, a.]

1. To give ; to bestow; to grant; to accord; to consent. [Obs.]
Spenser. Milton.

2. To allow; to permit; to suffer. [Obs.]
So loving to my mother, That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
Visit her face too roughly. Shak.

BETEL
Be"tel, n. Etym: [Pg., fr. Tamil vettilei, prop. meaning, a mere
leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of pepper (Piper betle), the leaves of which are
chewed, with the areca or betel nut and a little shell lime, by the
inhabitants of the East Indies. I is a woody climber with ovate
manynerved leaves.

BETELGUESE
Bet"el*guese, n. Etym: [F. Bételgeuse, of Arabic origin.] (Astron.)

Defn: A bright star of the first magnitude, near one shoulder of
Orion. [Written also Betelgeux and Betelgeuse.]

BETEL NUT
Be"tel nut`.

Defn: The nutlike seed of the areca palm, chewed in the East with
betel leaves (whence its name) and shell lime.

BETE NOIRE
Bête" noire". Etym: [Fr., lit. black beast.]

Defn: Something especially hated or dreaded; a bugbear.

BETHABARA WOOD
Beth*ab"a*ra wood`. (Bot.)

Defn: A highly elastic wood, used for fishing rods, etc. The tree is
unknown, but it is thought to be East Indian.

BETHEL
Beth"el, n. Etym: [Heb. b house of God.]

1. A place of worship; a hallowed spot. S. F. Adams.

2. A chapel for dissenters. [Eng.]

3. A house of worship for seamen.

BETHINK
Be*think", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bethought; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bethinking.] Etym: [AS. be; pref. be- + to think. See Think.]

Defn: To call to mind; to recall or bring to recollection,
reflection, or consideration; to think; to consider; -- generally
followed by a reflexive pronoun, often with of or that before the
subject of thought.
I have bethought me of another fault. Shak.
The rest . . . may . . . bethink themselves, and recover. Milton.
We bethink a means to break it off. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To recollect; remember; reflect.

BETHINK
Be*think", v. i.

Defn: To think; to recollect; to consider. "Bethink ere thou dismiss
us." Byron.

BETHLEHEM
Beth"le*hem, n. Etym: [Heb. b house of food; b house + lekhem food,
lakham to eat. Formerly the name of a hospital for the insane, in
London, which had been the priory of St. Mary of Bethlehem. Cf.
Bedlam.]

1. A hospital for lunatics; -- corrupted into bedlam.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: In the Ethiopic church, a small building attached to a church
edifice, in which the bread for the eucharist is made. Audsley.

BETHLEHEMITE; BETHLEMITE
Beth"le*hem*ite, Beth"lem*ite, n.

1. An inhabitant of Bethlehem in Judea.

2. An insane person; a madman; a bedlamite.

3. One of an extinct English order of monks.

BETHOUGHT
Be*thought",

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Bethink.

BETHRALL
Be*thrall", v. t.

Defn: To reduce to thralldom; to inthrall. [Obs.] Spenser.

BETHUMB
Be*thumb", v. t.

Defn: To handle; to wear or soil by handling; as books. Poe.

BETHUMP
Be*thump", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bethumped, or Bethumpt; p. pr. & vb.
n. Bethumping.]

Defn: To beat or thump soundly. Shak.

BETIDE
Be*tide", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Betided, Obs. Betid; p. pr. & vb. n.
Betiding.] Etym: [OE. bitiden; pref. bi-, be- + tiden, fr. AS. tidan,
to happen, fr. tid time. See Tide.]

Defn: To happen to; to befall; to come to ; as, woe betide the
wanderer.
What will betide the few Milton.

BETIDE
Be*tide", v. i.

Defn: To come to pass; to happen; to occur.
A salve for any sore that may betide. Shak.

Note: Shakespeare has used it with of. "What would betide of me "

BETIME; BETIMES
Be*time", Be*times", adv. Etym: [Pref. be- (for by) + time; that is,
by the proper time. The -s is an adverbial ending.]

1. In good season or time; before it is late; seasonably; early.
To measure life learn thou betimes. Milton.
To rise betimes is often harder than to do all the day's work.
Barrow.

2. In a short time; soon; speedily; forth with.
He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes. Shak.

BETITLE
Be*ti"tle, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a title or titles; to entitle. [Obs.] Carlyle.

BETOKEN
Be*to"ken, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Betokened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Betokening.]

1. To signify by some visible object; to show by signs or tokens.
A dewy cloud, and in the cloud a bow . . . Betokening peace from God,
and covenant new. Milton.

2. To foreshow by present signs; to indicate something future by that
which is seen or known; as, a dark cloud often betokens a storm.

Syn.
 -- To presage; portend; indicate; mark; note.

BETON
Bé`ton", n. Etym: [F. béton, fr. L. bitumen bitumen.] (Masonry)

Defn: The French name for concrete; hence, concrete made after the
French fashion.

BETONGUE
Be*tongue", v. t.

Defn: To attack with the tongue; to abuse; to insult.

BETONY
Bet"o*ny, n.; pl. Betonies. Etym: [OE. betony, betany, F. betoine,
fr. L. betonica, vettonica.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Betonica (Linn.).

Note: The purple or wood betony (B. officinalis, Linn.) is common in
Europe, being formerly used in medicine, and (according to Loudon) in
dyeing wool a yellow color.

BETOOK
Be*took", imp.

Defn: of Betake.

BETORN
Be*torn", a.

Defn: Torn in pieces; tattered.

BETOSS
Be*toss, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Betossed.]

Defn: To put in violent motion; to agitate; to disturb; to toss. "My
betossed soul." Shak.

BETRAP
Be*trap", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Betrapped.]

1. To draw into, or catch in, a trap; to insnare; to circumvent.
Gower.

2. To put trappings on; to clothe; to deck.
After them followed two other chariots covered with red satin, and
the horses betrapped with the same. Stow.

BETRAY
Be*tray", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Betrayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Betraying.]
Etym: [OE. betraien, bitraien; pref. be- + OF. traïr to bertray, F.
trahir, fr. L. tradere. See Traitor.]

1. To deliver into the hands of an enemy by treachery or fraud, in
violation of trust; to give up treacherously or faithlessly; as, an
officer betrayed the city.
Jesus said unto them, The Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands
of men. Matt. xvii. 22.

2. To prove faithless or treacherous to, as to a trust or one who
trusts; to be false to; to deceive; as, to betray a person or a
cause.
But when I rise, I shall find my legs betraying me. Johnson.

3. To violate the confidence of, by disclosing a secret, or that
which one is bound in honor not to make known.
Willing to serve or betray any government for hire. Macaulay.

4. To disclose or discover, as something which prudence would
conceal; to reveal unintentionally.
Be swift to hear, but cautious of your tongue, lest you betray your
ignorance. T. Watts.

5. To mislead; to expose to inconvenience not foreseen to lead into
error or sin.
Genius . . . often betrays itself into great errors. T. Watts.

6. To lead astray, as a maiden; to seduce (as under promise of
marriage) and then abandon.

7. To show or to indicate; -- said of what is not obvious at first,
or would otherwise be concealed.
All the names in the country betray great antiquity. Bryant.

BETRAYAL
Be*tray"al n.

Defn: The act or the result of betraying.

BETRAYER
Be*tray"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, betrays.

BETRAYMENT
Be*tray"ment, n.

Defn: Betrayal. [R.] Udall.

BETRIM
Be*trim", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Betrimmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Betrimming.]

Defn: To set in order; to adorn; to deck, to embellish; to trim.
Shak.

BETROTH
Be*troth", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Betrothed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Betrothing.] Etym: [Pref. be- + troth, i. e., truth. See Truth.]

1. To contract to any one for a marriage; to engage or promise in
order to marriage; to affiance; -- used esp. of a woman.
He, in the first flower of my freshest age, Betrothed me unto the
only heir. Spenser.
Ay, and we are betrothed. Shak.

2. To promise to take (as a future spouse); to plight one's troth to.
What man is there that hath betrothed a wife, and hath not taken her
Deut. xx. 7.

3. To nominate to a bishopric, in order to consecration. Ayliffe.

BETROTHAL
Be*troth"al, n.

Defn: The act of betrothing, or the fact of being betrothed; a mutual
promise, engagement, or contract for a future marriage between the
persons betrothed; betrothment; affiance. "The feast of betrothal."
Longfellow.

BETROTHMENT
Be*troth"ment, n.

Defn: The act of betrothing, or the state of being betrothed;
betrothal.

BETRUST
Be*trust", v. t.

Defn: To trust or intrust. [Obs.]

BETRUSTMENT
Be*trust"ment, n.

Defn: The act of intrusting, or the thing intrusted. [Obs.] Chipman.

BETSO
Bet"so, n. Etym: [It. bezzo.]

Defn: A small brass Venetian coin. [Obs.]

BETTER
Bet"ter, a.; compar. of Good. Etym: [OE. betere, bettre, and as adv.
bet, AS. betera, adj., and bet, adv.; akin to Icel. betri, adj.,
betr, adv., Goth. batiza, adj., OHG. bezziro, adj., baz, adv., G.
besser, adj. and adv., bass, adv., E. boot, and prob. to Skr. bhadra
excellent. See Boot advantage, and cf. Best, Batful.]

1. Having good qualities in a greater degree than another; as, a
better man; a better physician; a better house; a better air.
Could make the worse appear The better reason. Milton.

2. Preferable in regard to rank, value, use, fitness, acceptableness,
safety, or in any other respect.
To obey is better than sacrifice. 1 Sam. xv. 22.
It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes.
Ps. cxviii. 9.

3. Greater in amount; larger; more.

4. Improved in health; less affected with disease; as, the patient is
better.

5. More advanced; more perfect; as, upon better acquaintance; a
better knowledge of the subject. All the better. See under All, adv.
 -- Better half, an expression used to designate one's wife.
My dear, my better half (said he), I find I must now leave thee. Sir
P. Sidney.
-- To be better off, to be in a better condition.
 -- Had better. (See under Had).

Note: The phrase had better, followed by an infinitive without to, is
idiomatic. The earliest form of construction was "were better" with a
dative; as, "Him were better go beside." (Gower.) i. e., It would be
better for him, etc. At length the nominative (I, he, they, etc.)
supplanted the dative and had took the place of were. Thus we have
the construction now used.
By all that's holy, he had better starve Than but once think this
place becomes thee not. Shak.

BETTER
Bet"ter, n.

1. Advantage, superiority, or victory; -- usually with of; as, to get
the better of an enemy.

2. One who has a claim to precedence; a superior, as in merit, social
standing, etc.; -- usually in the plural.
Their betters would hardly be found. Hooker.
For the better, in the way of improvement; so as to produce
improvement. "If I have altered him anywhere for the better." Dryden.

BETTER
Bet"ter, adv.; compar. of Well.

1. In a superior or more excellent manner; with more skill and
wisdom, courage, virtue, advantage, or success; as, Henry writes
better than John; veterans fight better than recruits.
I could have better spared a better man. Shak.

2. More correctly or thoroughly.
The better to understand the extent of our knowledge. Locke.

3. In a higher or greater degree; more; as, to love one better than
another.
Never was monarch better feared, and loved. Shak.

4. More, in reference to value, distance, time, etc.; as, ten miles
and better. [Colloq.] To think better of (any one), to have a more
favorable opinion of any one.
 -- To think better of (an opinion, resolution, etc.), to reconsider
and alter one's decision.

BETTER
Bet"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bettered; p. pr. & vb. n. Bettering.]
Etym: [AS. beterian, betrian, fr. betera better. See Better, a.]

1. To improve or ameliorate; to increase the good qualities of.
Love betters what is best. Wordsworth.
He thought to better his circumstances. Thackeray.

2. To improve the condition of, morally, physically, financially,
socially, or otherwise.
The constant effort of every man to better himself. Macaulay.

3. To surpass in excellence; to exceed; to excel.
The works of nature do always aim at that which can not be bettered.
Hooker.

4. To give advantage to; to support; to advance the interest of.
[Obs.]
Weapons more violent, when next we meet, May serve to better us and
worse our foes. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To improve; meliorate; ameliorate; mend; amend; correct; emend;
reform; advance; promote.

BETTER
Bet"ter, v. i.

Defn: To become better; to improve. Carlyle.

BETTER
Bet"ter, n.

Defn: One who bets or lays a wager.

BETTERMENT
Bet"ter*ment, n.

1. A making better; amendment; improvement. W. Montagu.

2. (Law)

Defn: An improvement of an estate which renders it better than mere
repairing would do; -- generally used in the plural. [U. S.] Bouvier.

BETTERMOST
Bet"ter*most`, a.

Defn: Best. [R.] "The bettermost classes." Brougham.

BETTERNESS
Bet"ter*ness, n.

1. The quality of being better or superior; superiority. [R.] Sir P.
Sidney.

2. The difference by which fine gold or silver exceeds in fineness
the standard.

BETTONG
Bet"tong, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, leaping Australian marsupial of the genus Bettongia;
the jerboa kangaroo.

BETTOR
Bet"tor, n.

Defn: One who bets; a better. Addison.

BETTY
Bet"ty, n.

1. Etym: [Supposed to be a cant word, from Betty, for Elizabeth, as
such an instrument is also called Bess (i. e., Elizabeth) in the
Canting Dictionary of 1725, and Jenny (i. e., Jane).]

Defn: A short bar used by thieves to wrench doors open. [Written also
bettee.]
The powerful betty, or the artful picklock. Arbuthnot.

2. Etym: [Betty, nickname for Elizabeth.]

Defn: A name of contempt given to a man who interferes with the
duties of women in a household, or who occupies himself with womanish
matters.

3. A pear-shaped bottle covered round with straw, in which olive oil
is sometimes brought from Italy; -- called by chemists a Florence
flask. [U. S.] Bartlett.

BETULIN
Bet"u*lin, n. Etym: [L. betula birch tree.] (Chem.)

Defn: A substance of a resinous nature, obtained from the outer bark
of the common European birch (Betula alba), or from the tar prepared
therefrom; -- called also birch camphor. Watts.

BETUMBLE
Be*tum"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Betumbled.]

Defn: To throw into disorder; to tumble. [R.]
From her betumbled couch she starteth. Shak.

BETUTOR
Be*tu"tor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Betutored.]

Defn: To tutor; to instruct. Coleridge.

BETWEEN
Be*tween", prep. Etym: [OE. bytwene, bitweonen, AS. betweónan,
betweónum; prefix be- by + a form fr. AS. twa two, akin to Goth.
tweihnai two apiece. See Twain, and cf. Atween, Betwixt.]

1. In the space which separates; betwixt; as, New York is between
Boston and Philadelphia.

2. Used in expressing motion from one body or place to another; from
one to another of two.
If things should go so between them. Bacon.

3. Belonging in common to two; shared by both.
Castor and Pollux with only one soul between them. Locke.

4. Belonging to, or participated in by, two, and involving reciprocal
action or affecting their mutual relation; as, opposition between
science and religion.
An intestine struggle, open or secret, between authority and liberty.
Hume.

5. With relation to two, as involved in an act or attribute of which
another is the agent or subject; as, to judge between or to choose
between courses; to distinguish between you and me; to mediate
between nations.

6. In intermediate relation to, in respect to time, quantity, or
degree; as, between nine and ten o'clock. Between decks, the space,
or in the space, between the decks of a vessel.
 -- Between ourselves, Between you and me, Between themselves, in
confidence; with the understanding that the matter is not to be
communicated to others.

Syn.
 -- Between, Among. Between etymologically indicates only two; as, a
quarrel between two men or two nations; to be between two fires, etc.
It is however extended to more than two in expressing a certain
relation.
I . . . hope that between public business, improving studies, and
domestic pleasures, neither melancholy nor caprice will find any
place for entrance. Johnson.
Among implies a mass or collection of things or persons, and always
supposes more than two; as, the prize money was equally divided among
the ship's crew.

BETWEEN
Be*tween", n.

Defn: Intermediate time or space; interval. [Poetic & R.] Shak.

BETWIXT
Be*twixt", prep. Etym: [OE. betwix, bitwix, rarely bitwixt, AS.
betweox, betweohs, betweoh, betwih; pref. be- by + a form fr. AS. twa
two. See Between.]

1. In the space which separates; between.
From betwixt two aged oaks. Milton.

2. From one to another of; mutually affecting.
There was some speech of marriage Betwixt myself and her. Shak.
Betwixt and between, in a midway position; so-so; neither one thing
nor the other. [Colloq.]

BEURRE
Beur*ré", n. Etym: [F., fr. beurre butter.] (Bot.)

Defn: A beurré (or buttery) pear, one with the meas, Beurré d'Anjou;
Beurré Clairgeau.

BEVEL
Bev"el, n. Etym: [C. F. biveau, earlier buveau, Sp. baivel; of
unknown origin. Cf. Bevile.]

1. Any angle other than a right angle; the angle which one surface
makes with another when they are not at right angles; the slant or
inclination of such surface; as, to give a bevel to the edge of a
table or a stone slab; the bevel of a piece of timber.

2. An instrument consisting of two rules or arms, jointed together at
one end, and opening to any angle, for adjusting the surfaces of work
to the same or a given inclination; -- called also a bevel square.
Gwilt.

BEVEL
Bev"el, a.

1. Having the slant of a bevel; slanting.

2. Hence: Morally distorted; not upright. [Poetic]
I may be straight, though they themselves be bevel. Shak.
A bevel angle, any angle other than one of 90º.
 -- Bevel wheel, a cogwheel whose working face is oblique to the
axis. Knight.

BEVEL
Bev"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Beveled (Bevelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Beveling or Bevelling.]

Defn: To cut to a bevel angle; to slope the edge or surface of.

BEVEL
Bev"el, v. i.

Defn: To deviate or incline from an angle of 90
Their houses are very ill built, the walls bevel. Swift.

BEVELED; BEVELLED
Bev"eled, Bev"elled, a.

1. Formed to a bevel angle; sloping; as, the beveled edge of a table.

2. (Min.) Replaced by two planes inclining equally upon the adjacent
planes, as an edge; having its edges replaces by sloping planes, as a
cube or other solid.

BEVEL GEAR
Bev"el gear`. (Mech.)

Defn: A kind of gear in which the two wheels working together lie in
different planes, and have their teeth cut at right angles to the
surfaces of two cones whose apices coincide with the point where the
axes of the wheels would meet.

BEVELMENT
Bev"el*ment, n. (Min.)

Defn: The replacement of an edge by two similar planes, equally
inclined to the including faces or adjacent planes.

BEVER
Be"ver, n. Etym: [OE. bever a drink, drinking time, OF. beivre,
boivre, to drink, fr. L. bibere.]

Defn: A light repast between meals; a lunch. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

BEVER
Be"ver, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bevered (

Defn: To take a light repast between meals. [Obs.]

BEVERAGE
Bev"er*age, n. Etym: [OF. bevrage, F. breuvage, fr. beivre to drink,
fr. L. bibere. Cf. Bib, v. t., Poison, Potable.]

1. Liquid for drinking; drink; -- usually applied to drink
artificially prepared and of an agreeable flavor; as, an intoxicating
beverage.
He knew no beverage but the flowing stream. Thomson.

2. Specifically, a name applied to various kinds of drink.

3. A treat, or drink money. [Slang]

BEVILE
Bev"ile, n. Etym: [See Bevel.] (Her.)

Defn: A chief broken or opening like a carpenter's bevel. Encyc.
Brit.

BEVILED; BEVILLED
Bev"iled, Bev"illed, a. (Her.)

Defn: Notched with an angle like that inclosed by a carpenter's
bevel; -- said of a partition line of a shield.

BEVY
Bev"y, n.; pl. Bevies. Etym: [Perhaps orig. a drinking company, fr.
OF. bevée (cf. It. beva) a drink, beverage; then, perh., a company in
general, esp. of ladies; and last applied by sportsmen to larks,
quails, etc. See Beverage.]

1. A company; an assembly or collection of persons, especially of
ladies.
What a bevy of beaten slaves have we here ! Beau. & Fl.

2. A flock of birds, especially quails or larks; also, a herd of
roes.

BEWAIL
Be*wail", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bewailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Bewailing.]

Defn: To express deep sorrow for, as by wailing; to lament; to wail
over.
Hath widowed and unchilded many a one, Which to this hour bewail the
injury. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To bemoan; grieve.
 -- See Deplore.

BEWAIL
Be*wail", v. i.

Defn: To express grief; to lament. Shak.

BEWAILABLE
Be*wail"a*ble, a.

Defn: Such as may, or ought to, be bewailed; lamentable.

BEWAILER
Be*wail"er, n.

Defn: One who bewails or laments.

BEWAILING
Be*wail"ing, a.

Defn: Wailing over; lamenting.
 -- Be*wail"ing*ly, adv.

BEWAILMENT
Be*wail"ment, n.

Defn: The act of bewailing.

BEWAKE
Be*wake", v. t. & i.

Defn: To keep watch over; to keep awake. [Obs.] Gower.

BEWARE
Be*ware", v. i. Etym: [Be, imperative of verb to be + ware. See Ware,
Wary.]

1. To be on one's guard; to be cautious; to take care; -- commonly
followed by of or lest before the thing that is to be avoided.
Beware of all, but most beware of man ! Pope.
Beware the awful avalanche. Longfellow.

2. To have a special regard; to heed. [Obs.]
Behold, I send an Angel before thee. . . . Beware of him, and obey
his voice. Ex. xxiii. 20, 21.

Note: This word is a compound from be and the Old English ware, now
wary, which is an adjective. "Be ye war of false prophetis." Wyclif,
Matt. vii. 15. It is used commonly in the imperative and infinitive
modes, and with such auxiliaries (shall, should, must, etc.) as go
with the infinitive.

BEWARE
Be*ware", v. t.

Defn: To avoid; to take care of; to have a care for. [Obs.] "Priest,
beware your beard." Shak.
To wish them beware the son. Milton.

BEWASH
Be*wash", v. t.

Defn: To drench or souse with water. "Let the maids bewash the men."
Herrick.

BEWEEP
Be*weep", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bewept; p. pr. & vb. n. Beweeping.]
Etym: [AS. bew; pref. be- + weep.]

Defn: To weep over; to deplore; to bedew with tears. "His timeless
death beweeping." Drayton.

BEWEEP
Be*weep", v. i.

Defn: To weep. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BEWET
Be*wet", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bewet, Bewetted.]

Defn: To wet or moisten. Gay.

BEWHORE
Be*whore", v. t.

1. To corrupt with regard to chastity; to make a whore of. J.
Fletcher.

2. To pronounce or characterize as a whore. Shak.

BEWIG
Be*wig", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bewigged.]

Defn: To cover (the head) with a wig. Hawthorne.

BEWILDER
Be*wil"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bewildered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bewildering.] Etym: [Pref. be- + wilder.]

Defn: To lead into perplexity or confusion, as for want of a plain
path; to perplex with mazes; or in general, to perplex or confuse
greatly.
Lost and bewildered in the fruitless search. Addison.

Syn.
 -- To perplex; puzzle; entangle; confuse; confound; mystify;
embarrass; lead astray.

BEWILDERED
Be*wil"dered, a.

Defn: Greatly perplexed; as, a bewildered mind.

BEWILDEREDNESS
Be*wil"dered*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being bewildered; bewilderment. [R.]

BEWILDERING
Be*wil"der*ing, a.

Defn: Causing bewilderment or great perplexity; as, bewildering
difficulties.
 -- Be*wil"der*ing*ly, adv.

BEWILDERMENT
Be*wil"der*ment, n.

1. The state of being bewildered.

2. A bewildering tangle or confusion.
He . . . soon lost all traces of it amid bewilderment of tree trunks
and underbrush. Hawthorne.

BEWINTER
Be*win"ter, v. t.

Defn: To make wintry. [Obs.]

BEWIT
Bew"it, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. buie bond, chain, fr. L. boja neck collar,
fetter. Cf. Buoy.]

Defn: A double slip of leather by which bells are fastened to a
hawk's legs.

BEWITCH
Be*witch", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bewitched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bewitching.]

1. To gain an ascendency over by charms or incantations; to affect
(esp. to injure) by witchcraft or sorcery.
See how I am bewitched; behold, mine arm Is like a blasted sapling
withered up. Shak.

2. To charm; to fascinate; to please to such a degree as to take away
the power of resistance; to enchant.
The charms of poetry our souls bewitch. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To enchant; captivate; charm; entrance.

BEWITCHEDNESS
Be*witch"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being bewitched. Gauden.

BEWITCHER
Be*witch"er, n.

Defn: One who bewitches.

BEWITCHERY
Be*witch"er*y, n.

Defn: The power of bewitching or fascinating; bewitchment; charm;
fascination.
There is a certain bewitchery or fascination in words. South.

BEWITCHING
Be*witch"ing, a.

Defn: Having power to bewitch or fascinate; enchanting; captivating;
charming.
 -- Be*witch"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Be*witch"ing*ness, n.

BEWITCHMENT
Be*witch"ment, n.

1. The act of bewitching, or the state of being bewitched. Tylor.

2. The power of bewitching or charming. Shak.

BEWONDER
Be*won"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bewondered.]

1. To fill with wonder. [Obs.]

2. To wonder at; to admire. [Obs.]

BEWRAP
Be*wrap", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bewrapped.]

Defn: To wrap up; to cover. Fairfax.

BEWRAY
Be*wray", v. t.

Defn: To soil. See Beray.

BEWRAY
Be*wray", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bewrayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Bewraying.]
Etym: [OE. bewraien, biwreyen; pref. be- + AS. wr to accuse, betray;
akin to OS. wr, OHG. ruog, G. rügen, Icel. rægja, Goth. wr to
accuse.]

Defn: To expose; to reveal; to disclose; to betray. [Obs. or Archaic]
The murder being once done, he is in less fear, and in more hope that
the deed shall not be bewrayed or known. Robynson (More's Utopia. )
Thy speech bewrayeth thee. Matt. xxvi. 73.

BEWRAYER
Be*wray"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, bewrays; a revealer. [Obs. or Archaic]
Addison.

BEWRAYMENT
Be*wray"ment, n.

Defn: Betrayal. [R.]

BEWRECK
Be*wreck", v. t.

Defn: To wreck. [Obs.]

BEWREKE
Be*wreke", v. t. Etym: [Pref. be- + wreak.]

Defn: To wreak; to avenge. [Obs.] Ld. Berners.

BEWROUGHT
Be*wrought", a. Etym: [Pref. be- + wrought, p. p. of work, v. t. ]

Defn: Embroidered. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BEY
Bey, n. Etym: [See Beg a bey.]

Defn: A governor of a province or district in the Turkish dominions;
also, in some places, a prince or nobleman; a beg; as, the bey of
Tunis.

BEYLIC
Bey"lic, n. Etym: [Turk.]

Defn: The territory ruled by a bey.

BEYOND
Be*yond", prep. Etym: [OE. biyonde, bi, AS. begeondan, prep. and
adv.; pref. be- + geond yond, yonder. See Yon, Yonder.]

1. On the further side of; in the same direction as, and further on
or away than.
Beyond that flaming hill. G. Fletcher.

2. At a place or time not yet reached; before.
A thing beyond us, even before our death. Pope.

3. Past, out of the reach or sphere of; further than; greater than;
as, the patient was beyond medical aid; beyond one's strength.

4. In a degree or amount exceeding or surpassing; proceeding to a
greater degree than; above, as in dignity, excellence, or quality of
any kind. "Beyond expectation." Barrow.
Beyond any of the great men of my country. Sir P. Sidney.
Beyond sea. (Law) See under Sea.
 -- To go beyond, to exceed in ingenuity, in research, or in anything
else; hence, in a bed sense, to deceive or circumvent.
That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter. 1 Thess.
iv. 6.

BEYOND
Be*yond", adv.

Defn: Further away; at a distance; yonder.
Lo, where beyond he lyeth languishing. Spenser.

BEZANT
Be*zant", n. Etym: [See Byzant.]

1. A gold coin of Byzantium or Constantinople, varying in weight and
value, usually (those current in England) between a sovereign and a
half sovereign. There were also white or silver bezants. [Written
also besant, byzant, etc.]

2. (Her.)

Defn: A circle in or, i. e., gold, representing the gold coin called
bezant. Burke.

3. A decoration of a flat surface, as of a band or belt, representing
circular disks lapping one upon another.

BEZ-ANTLER
Bez`-ant"ler, n. Etym: [L. bis twice (OF. bes) + E. antler.]

Defn: The second branch of a stag's horn.

BEZEL
Bez"el, n. Etym: [From an old form of F. biseau sloping edge, prob.
fr. L. bis double. See Bi-.]

Defn: The rim which encompasses and fastens a jewel or other object,
as the crystal of a watch, in the cavity in which it is set.

BEZIQUE
Bé*zique", n. Etym: [F. bésigue.]

Defn: A game at cards in which various combinations of cards in the
hand, when declared, score points.

BEZOAR
Be"zoar, n. Etym: [F. bézoard, fr. Ar. bazahr, badizahr, fr. Per.
pad-zahr bezoar; pad protecting + zahr poison; cf. Pg. & Sp. bezoar.]

Defn: A calculous concretion found in the intestines of certain
ruminant animals (as the wild goat, the gazelle, and the Peruvian
llama) formerly regarded as an unfailing antidote for poison, and a
certain remedy for eruptive, pestilential, or putrid diseases. Hence:
Any antidote or panacea.

Note: Two kinds were particularly esteemed, the Bezoar orientale of
India, and the Bezoar occidentale of Peru. Bezoar antelope. See
Antelope.
 -- Bezoar goat (Zoöl.), the wild goat (Capra ægagrus).
 -- Bezoar mineral, an old preparation of oxide of antimony. Ure.

BEZOARDIC
Bez`o*ar"dic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. bézoardique, bézoartique.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or compounded with, bezoar.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine containing bezoar.

BEZOARTIC; BEZOARTICAL
Bez`o*ar"tic, Bez`o*ar"tic*al, a. Etym: [See Bezoardic.]

Defn: Having the qualities of an antidote, or of bezoar; healing.
[Obs.]

BEZONIAN
Be*zo"ni*an, n. Etym: [Cf. F. besoin need, want, It bisogno.]

Defn: A low fellow or scoundrel; a beggar.
Great men oft die by vile bezonians. Shak.

BEZPOPOVTSY
Bez`po*pov"tsy, n. [Russ.; bez without + popovtsy, a derivative of
pop priest.]

Defn: A Russian sect. See Raskolnik.

BEZZLE
Bez"zle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bezzled; p. pr. & vb. n. Bezzling.]
Etym: [OF. besillier, besiler, to maltreat, pillage; or shortened fr.
embezzle. Cf. Embezzle.]

Defn: To plunder; to waste in riot. [Obs.]

BEZZLE
Bez"zle, v. i.

Defn: To drink to excess; to revel. [Obs.]

BHANG
Bhang, n. Etym: [Per. bang; cf. Skr. bhanga hemp.]

Defn: An astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves and
seed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica), and chewed or smoked in
the East as a means of intoxication. See Hasheesh.

BHEESTY; BHEESTIE
Bhees"ty, Bhees"tie, n. [Written also bhistee, bhisti, etc.] [Per.
bihishti lit., heavenly.]

Defn: A water carrier, as to a household or a regiment. [India]

BHISTEE; BHISTI
Bhis"tee, Bhis"ti, n.

Defn: Same as Bheesty. [India]

BHUNDER
Bhun"der, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Indian monkey (Macacus Rhesus), protected by the Hindoos as
sacred. See Rhesus.

BI; BI-
Bi*. Etym: [L. bis twice, which in composition drops the -s, akin to
E. two. See Bis-, Two, and cf. Di-, Dis-.]

1. In most branches of science bi- in composition denotes two, twice,
or doubly; as, bidentate, two-toothed; biternate, doubly ternate,
etc.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: In the composition of chemical names bi- denotes two atoms,
parts, or equivalents of that constituent to the name of which it is
prefixed, to one of the other component, or that such constituent is
present in double the ordinary proportion; as, bichromate,
bisulphide. Be- and di- are often used interchangeably.

BIACID
Bi*ac"id, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: Having two hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by negative
atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of bases. See Diacid.

BIACUMINATE
Bi`a*cu"mi*nate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + acuminate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having points in two directions.

BIANGULAR
Bi*an"gu*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + angular.]

Defn: Having two angles or corners.

BIANGULATE; BIANGULATED
Bi*an"gu*late, Bi*an"gu*la`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + angulate,
angulated.]

Defn: Biangular.

BIANGULOUS
Bi*an"gu*lous,a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + angulous.]

Defn: Biangular. [R.]

BIANNUAL
Bi*an"nu*al, a. [Pref. bi- + annual.]

Defn: Occurring twice a year; half-yearly; semiannual.

BIANTHERIFEROUS
Bi*an`ther*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + antherigerous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two anthers.

BIARTICULATE
Bi`ar*tic"u*late, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + articulate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having, or consisting of, tow joints.

BIAS
Bi"as, n.; pl. Biases. Etym: [F. biasis, perh. fr. LL. bifax two-
faced; L. bis + facies face. See Bi-, and cf. Face.]

1. A weight on the side of the ball used in the game of bowls, or a
tendency imparted to the ball, which turns it from a straight line.
Being ignorant that there is a concealed bias within the spheroid,
which will . . . swerve away. Sir W. Scott.

2. A learning of the mind; propensity or prepossession toward an
object or view, not leaving the mind indifferent; bent inclination.
Strong love is a bias upon the thoughts. South.
Morality influences men's lives, and gives a bias to all their
actions. Locke.

3. A wedge-shaped piece of cloth taken out of a garment (as the waist
of a dress) to diminish its circumference.

4. A slant; a diagonal; as, to cut cloth on the bias.

Syn.
 -- Prepossession; prejudice; partiality; inclination. See Bent.

BIAS
Bi"as, a.

1. Inclined to one side; swelled on one side. [Obs.] Shak.

2. Cut slanting or diagonally, as cloth.

BIAS
Bi"as, adv.

Defn: In a slanting manner; crosswise; obliquely; diagonally; as, to
cut cloth bias.

BIAS
Bi"as, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Biased; p. pr. & vb. n. Biasing.]

Defn: To incline to one side; to give a particular direction to; to
influence; to prejudice; to prepossess.
Me it had not biased in the one direction, nor should it have biased
any just critic in the counter direction. De. Quincey.

BIAURICULATE
Bi`au*ric"u*late, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + au riculate.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Having two auricles, as the heart of mammals, birds, and
reptiles.

2. (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two earlike projections at its base, as a leaf.

BIAXAL; BIAXIAL
Bi*ax"al, Bi*ax"i*al, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + axal, axial.] (Opt.)

Defn: Having two axes; as, biaxial polarization. Brewster.
 -- Bi*ax"i*al*ly, adv.

BIB
Bib, n. Etym: [From Bib, v., because the bib receives the drink that
the child slavers from the mouth.]

1. A small piece of cloth worn by children over the breast, to
protect the clothes.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An arctic fish (Gadus luscus), allied to the cod; -- called
also pout and whiting pout.

3. A bibcock.

BIB; BIBBE
Bib, Bibbe, v. t. Etym: [L. bibere. See Beverage, and cf. Imbibe.]

Defn: To drink; to tipple. [Obs.]
This miller hath . . . bibbed ale. Chaucer.

BIB
Bib, v. i.

Defn: To drink; to sip; to tipple.
He was constantly bibbing. Locke.

BIBACIOUS
Bi*ba"cious, a. Etym: [L. bibax, bibacis, fr. bibere. See Bib.]

Defn: Addicted to drinking.

BIBACITY
Bi*bac"i*ty, n.

Defn: The practice or habit of drinking too much; tippling. Blount.

BIBASIC
Bi*ba"sic, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + basic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Having to hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by positive or
basic atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of acids. See Dibasic.

BIBB
Bibb, n.

Defn: A bibcock. See Bib, n., 3.

BIBBER
Bib"ber, n.

Defn: One given to drinking alcoholic beverages too freely; a
tippler; -- chiefly used in composition; as, winebibber.

BIBBLE-BABBLE
Bib"ble-bab"ble, n. Etym: [A reduplication of babble.]

Defn: Idle talk; babble. Shak.

BIBBS
Bibbs, n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Pieces of timber bolted to certain parts of a mast tp support
the trestletrees.

BIBCOCK
Bib"cock`, n.

Defn: A cock or faucet having a bent down nozzle. Knight.

BIBELOT
Bi`be*lot", n. [F.]

Defn: A small decorative object without practical utility.

Her pictures, her furniture, and her bibelots.
M. Crawford.

BIBIRINE
Bi*bi"rine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Bebeerine.

BIBITORY
Bib"i*to*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to drinking or tippling.

BIBLE
Bi"ble, n. Etym: [F. bible, L. biblia, pl., fr. Gr. , pl. of , dim.
of , , book, prop. Egyptian papyrus.]

1. A book. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. The Book by way of eminence, -- that is, the book which is made up
of the writings accepted by Christians as of divine origin and
authority, whether such writings be in the original language, or
translated; the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments; --
sometimes in a restricted sense, the Old Testament; as, King James's
Bible; Douay Bible; Luther's Bible. Also, the book which is made up
of writings similarly accepted by the Jews; as, a rabbinical Bible.

3. A book containing the sacred writings belonging to any religion;
as, the Koran is often called the Mohammedan Bible. Fig.)

Defn: A book with an authoritative exposition of some topic,
respected by many experts on the field. Bible Society, an association
for securing the multiplication and wide distribution of the Bible.
 -- Douay Bible. See Douay Bible.
 -- Geneva Bible. See under Geneva.

BIBLER
Bib"ler, n. Etym: [See Bib, v. t.]

Defn: A great drinker; a tippler. [Written also bibbler and
bibbeler.]

BIBLICAL
Bib"li*cal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the Bible; as, biblical
learning; biblical authority.

BIBLICALITY
Bib`li*cal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being biblical; a biblical subject. [R.]

BIBLICALLY
Bib"li*cal*ly, adv.

Defn: According to the Bible.

BIBLICISM
Bib"li*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. biblicisme.]

Defn: Learning or literature relating to the Bible. [R.]

BIBLICIST
Bib"li*cist, n.

Defn: One skilled in the knowledge of the Bible; a demonstrator of
religious truth by the Scriptures.

BIBLIOGRAPH
Bib"li*o*graph`, n.

Defn: Bibliographer.

BIBLIOGRAPHER
Bib`li*og"ra*pher, n. Etym: [Gr. , fr. book + to write : cf. F.
bibliographe.]

Defn: One who writes, or is versed in, bibliography.

BIBLIOGRAPHIC; BIBLIOGRAPHICAL
Bib`li*o*graph"ic, Bib`li*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
bibliographique.]

Defn: Pertaining to bibliography, or the history of books.
 -- Bib`li*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bib`li*og"ra*phy n.; pl. Bibliographies. Etym: [Gr. : cf. F.
bibliographie.]

Defn: A history or description of books and manuscripts, with notices
of the different editions, the times when they were printed, etc.

BIBLIOLATER; BIBLIOLATRIST
Bib`li*ol"a*ter, Bib`li*ol"a*trist, n. Etym: [See. Bibliolatry.]

Defn: A worshiper of books; especially, a worshiper of the Bible; a
believer in its verbal inspiration. De Quincey.

BIBLIOLATRY
Bib`li*ol"a*try, n. Etym: [Gr. book + service, worship, to serve.]

Defn: Book worship, esp. of the Bible; -- applied by Roman Catholic
divine Coleridge. F. W. Newman.

BIBLIOLOGICAL
Bib`li*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Relating to bibliology.

BIBLIOLOGY
Bib`li*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. book + -logy.]

1. An account of books; book lore; bibliography.

2. The literature or doctrine of the Bible.

BIBLIOMANCY
Bib"li*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. book + -mancy: cf. F. bibliomancie.]

Defn: A kind of divination, performed by selecting passages of
Scripture at hazard, and drawing from them indications concerning
future events.

BIBLIOMANIA
Bib`li*o*ma"ni*a, n. Etym: [Gr. book + madness: cf. F. bibliomanie.]

Defn: A mania for acquiring books.

BIBLIOMANIAC
Bib`li*o*ma"ni*ac, n.

Defn: One who has a mania for books.
 -- a.

Defn: Relating to a bibliomaniac.

BIBLIOMANIACAL
Bib`li*o*ma*ni"ac*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a passion for books; relating to a bibliomaniac.

BIBLIOPEGIC
Bib`li*o*peg"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. book + to make fast.]

Defn: Relating to the binding of books. [R.]

BIBLIOPEGIST
Bib`li*op"e*gist, n.

Defn: A bookbinder.

BIBLIOPEGISTIC
Bib`li*op`e*gis"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the art of binding books. [R.] Dibdin.

BIBLIOPEGY
Bib`li*op"e*gy, n. Etym: [See Bibliopegic.]

Defn: The art of binding books. [R.]

BIBLIOPHILE
Bib"li*o*phile, n. Etym: [Gr. book + to love: cf. F. bibliophile.]

Defn: A lover of books.

BIBLIOPHILISM
Bib`li*oph"i*lism, n.

Defn: Love of books.

BIBLIOPHILIST
Bib`li*oph"i*list, n.

Defn: A lover of books.

BIBLIOPHOBIA
Bib`li*o*pho"bi*a, n. Etym: [Gr. book + to fear.]

Defn: A dread of books. [R.]

BIBLIOPOLE
Bib"li*o*pole, n. Etym: [L. bibliopola, Gr. ; book + to sell: cf. F.
bibliopole.]

Defn: One who sells books.

BIBLIOPOLIC; BIBLIOPOLAR
Bib`li*o*pol"ic, Bib`li*op"o*lar, a. Etym: [See Bibliopole.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sale of books. "Bibliopolic
difficulties." Carlyle.

BIBLIOPOLISM
Bib`li*op"o*lism, n.

Defn: The trade or business of selling books.

BIBLIOPOLIST
Bib`li*op"o*list, n.

Defn: Same as Bibliopole.

BIBLIOPOLISTIC
Bib`li*op`o*lis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to bibliopolism. Dibdin.

BIBLIOTAPH; BIBLIOTAPHIST
Bib"li*o*taph, Bib`li*ot"a*phist, n. Etym: [Gr. book + a burial.]

Defn: One who hides away books, as in a tomb. [R.] Crabb.

BIBLIOTHEC
Bib"li*o*thec, n.

Defn: A librarian.

BIBLIOTHECA
Bib`li*o*the"ca, n. Etym: [L. See Bibliotheke.]

Defn: A library.

BIBLIOTHECAL
Bib`li*o*the"cal, a. Etym: [L. bibliothecalis. See Bibliotheke.]

Defn: Belonging to a library. Byrom.

BIBLIOTHECARY
Bib`li*oth"e*ca*ry, n. Etym: [L. bibliothecarius: cf. F.
bibliothécaire.]

Defn: A librarian. [Obs.] Evelin.

BIBLIOTHEKE
Bib"li*o*theke, n. Etym: [L. bibliotheca, Gr. ; book + a case, box,
fr. to place: cf. F. bibliothèque.]

Defn: A library. [Obs.] Bale.

BIBLIST
Bib"list, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bibliste. See Bible.]

1. One who makes the Bible the sole rule of faith.

2. A biblical scholar; a biblicist. I. Taylor.

BIBRACTEATE
Bi*brac"te*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + bracteate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with, or having, two bracts.

BIBULOUS
Bib"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. bibulus, fr. bibere to drink. See Bib, v. t.
]

1. Readily imbibing fluids or moisture; spongy; as, bibulous blotting
paper.

2. Inclined to drink; addicted to tippling.

BIBULOUSLY
Bib"u*lous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a bibulous manner; with profuse imbibition or absorption. De
Quincey.

BICALCARATE
Bi*cal"ca*rate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + calcarate.]

Defn: Having two spurs, as the wing or leg of a bird.

BICALLOSE; BICALLOUS
Bi*cal"lose, Bi*cal"lous, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + callose, callous.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having two callosities or hard spots. Gray.

BICAMERAL
Bi*cam"er*al, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + camera.]

Defn: Consisting of, or including, two chambers, or legislative
branches. Bentham.

BICAPSULAR
Bi*cap"su*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + capsular: cf. F. bicapsulaire.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having two capsules; as, a bicapsular pericarp.

BICARBONATE
Bi*car"bon*ate, n. Etym: [Pref. bi-+ carbonate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A carbonate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is
replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion
of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the
normal carbonates; an acid carbonate; -- sometimes called
supercarbonate.

BICARBURETED; BICARBURETTED
Bi*car"bu*ret`ed or -ret`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + carbureted.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Containing two atoms or equivalents of carbon in the molecule.
[Obs. or R.]

BICARINATE
Bi*car"i*nate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + carinate.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having two keel-like projections, as the upper palea of
grasses.

BICAUDAL
Bi*cau"dal, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + caudal.]

Defn: Having, or terminating in, two tails.

BICAUDATE
Bi*cau"date, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + caudate.]

Defn: Two-tailed; bicaudal.

BICCHED
Bic"ched, a. Etym: [Of unknown origin.]

Defn: Pecked; pitted; notched. [Obs.] Chaucer. Bicched bones, pecked,
or notched, bones; dice.

BICE; BISE
Bice, Bise, n. Etym: [F. bis, akin to It. bigio light gray, tawny.]
(Paint.)

Defn: A pale blue pigment, prepared from the native blue carbonate of
copper, or from smalt; -- called also blue bice. Green bice is
prepared from the blue, by adding yellow orpiment, or by grinding
down the green carbonate of copper. Cooley. Brande & C.

BICENTENARY
Bi*cen"te*na*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + centenary.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to two hundred, esp. to two hundred years; as,
a bicentenary celebration.
 -- n.

Defn: The two hundredth anniversary, or its celebration.

BICENTENNIAL
Bi`cen*ten"ni*al, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + centennial.]

1. Consisting of two hundred years.

2. Occurring every two hundred years.

BICENTENNIAL
Bi`cen*ten"ni*al, n.

Defn: The two hundredth year or anniversary, or its celebration.

BICEPHALOUS
Bi*ceph"a*lous, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + cephalous: cf. F. bicéphale.]

Defn: Having two heads.

BICEPS
Bi"ceps, n. Etym: [L., two-headed; bis twice + caput head. See
Capital.] (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle having two heads or origins; -- applied particularly
to a flexor in the arm, and to another in the thigh.

BICHIR
Bi*chir", n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A remarkable ganoid fish (Polypterus bichir) found in the Nile
and other African rivers. See Brachioganoidei.

BICHLORIDE
Bi*chlo"ride, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + chloride.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound consisting of two atoms of chlorine with one or more
atoms of another element; -- called also dichloride. Bichloride of
mercury, mercuric chloride; -- sometimes called corrosive sublimate.

BICHO
Bi"cho, n. Etym: [Sp.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Jigger.

BICHROMATE
Bi*chro"mate, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + chromate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt containing two parts of chromic acid to one of the other
ingredients; as, potassium bichromate; -- called also dichromate.

BICHROMATIZE
Bi*chro"ma*tize, v. t.

Defn: To combine or treat with a bichromate, esp. with bichromate of
potassium; as, bichromatized gelatine.

BICIPITAL
Bi*cip"i*tal, a. Etym: [L. biceps, bicipitis: cf. F. bicipital. See
Biceps.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) Having two heads or origins, as a muscle.
(b) Pertaining to a biceps muscle; as, bicipital furrows, the
depressions on either side of the biceps of the arm.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Dividing into two parts at one extremity; having two heads or
two supports; as, a bicipital tree.

BICIPITOUS
Bi*cip"i*tous, a.

Defn: Having two heads; bicipital. "Bicipitous serpents." Sir T.
Browne.

BICKER
Bick"er, n. Etym: [See Beaker.]

Defn: A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub.
[Prov. Eng.]

BICKER
Bick"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bickered; p. pr. & vb. n. Bickering.]
Etym: [OE. bikeren, perh. fr. Celtic; cf. W. bicra to fight, bicker,
bicre conflict, skirmish; perh. akin to E. beak.]

1. To skirmish; to exchange blows; to fight. [Obs.]
Two eagles had a conflict, and bickered together. Holland.

2. To contend in petulant altercation; to wrangle.
Petty things about which men cark and bicker. Barrow.

3. To move quickly and unsteadily, or with a pattering noise; to
quiver; to be tremulous, like flame.
They [streamlets] bickered through the sunny shade. Thomson.

BICKER
Bick"er, n.

1. A skirmish; an encounter. [Obs.]

2. A fight with stones between two parties of boys. [Scot.] Jamieson.

3. A wrangle; also, a noise,, as in angry contention.

BICKERER
Bick"er*er, n.

Defn: One who bickers.

BICKERING
Bick"er*ing, n.

1. A skirmishing. "Frays and bickerings." Milton.

2. Altercation; wrangling.

BICKERMENT
Bick"er*ment, n.

Defn: Contention. [Obs.] Spenser.

BICKERN
Bick"ern, n. Etym: [F. bigorne. See Bicorn.]

Defn: An anvil ending in a beak or point (orig. in two beaks); also,
the beak or horn itself.

BICKFORD FUSE; BICKFORD FUZE; BICKFORD MATCH
Bick"ford fuse, Bick"ford fuze, Bick"ford match.

Defn: A fuse used in blasting, consisting of a long cylinder of
explosive material inclosed in a varnished wrapping of rope or hose.
It burns from 2 to 4 feet a minute.

BICOLLIGATE
Bi*col"li*gate, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + colligatus, p. p. See
Colligate, v. t. ] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having the anterior toes connected by a basal web.

BICOLOR; BICOLORED
Bi"col`or, Bi"col`ored, a. Etym: [L. bicolor; bis twice + color
color.]

Defn: Of two colors.

BICONCAVE
Bi*con"cave, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + concave.]

Defn: Concave on both sides; as, biconcave vertebræ.

BICONJUGATE
Bi*con"ju*gate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + conjugate, a.] (Bot.)

Defn: Twice paired, as when a petiole forks twice. Gray.

BICONVEX
Bi*con"vex, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + convex.]

Defn: Convex on both sides; as, a biconvex lens.

BICORN; BICORNED; BICORNOUS
Bi"corn, Bi"corned, Bi*cor"nous, a. Etym: [L. bicornis; bis twice +
cornu horn: cf. F. bicorne. Cf. Bickern.]

Defn: Having two horns; two-horned; crescentlike.

BICORPORAL
Bi*cor"po*ral, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + corporal.]

Defn: Having two bodies.

BICORPORATE
Bi*cor"po*rate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + corporate.] (Her.)

Defn: Double-bodied, as a lion having one head and two bodies.

BICOSTATE
Bi*cos"tate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + costate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two principal ribs running longitudinally, as a leaf.

BICRENATE
Bi*cre"nate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + crenate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Twice crenated, as in the case of leaves whose crenatures are
themselves crenate.

BICRESCENTIC
Bi`cres*cen"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + crescent.]

Defn: Having the form of a double crescent.

BICRURAL
Bi*cru"ral, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + crural.]

Defn: Having two legs. Hooker.

BICUSPID; BICUSPIDATE
Bi*cus"pid, Bi*cus"pid*ate, a. Etym: [See pref. Bi-, and Cuspidate.]

Defn: Having two points or prominences; ending in two points; -- said
of teeth, leaves, fruit, etc.

BICUSPID
Bi*cus"pid, n. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the two double-pointed teeth which intervene between the
canines (cuspids) and the molars, on each side of each jaw. See
Tooth, n.

BICYANIDE
Bi*cy"a*nide, n.

Defn: See Dicyanide.

BICYCLE
Bi"cy*cle, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + cycle.]

Defn: A light vehicle having two wheels one behind the other. It has
a saddle seat and is propelled by the rider's feet acting on cranks
or levers.

BICYCLER
Bi"cy*cler, n.

Defn: One who rides a bicycle.

BICYCLIC
Bi*cyc"lic, a.

Defn: Relating to bicycles.

BICYCLING
Bi"cy*cling, n.

Defn: The use of a bicycle; the act or practice of riding a bicycle.

BICYCLISM
Bi"cy*clism, n.

Defn: The art of riding a bicycle.

BICYCLIST
Bi"cy*clist, n.

Defn: A bicycler.

BICYCULAR
Bi*cyc"u*lar, a.

Defn: Relating to bicycling.

BID
Bid, v. t. [imp. Bade, Bid, (Obs.) Bad; p. p. Bidden, Bid; p. pr. &
vb. n. Bidding.] Etym: [OE. bidden, prop to ask, beg, AS. biddan;
akin to OS. biddian, Icel. bi, OHG. bittan, G. bitten, to pray, ask,
request, and E. bead, also perh. to Gr. to persuade, L. fidere to
trust, E. faith, and bide. But this word was early confused with OE.
beden, beoden, AS. beódan, to offer, command; akin to Icel. bj, Goth.
biudan (in comp.), OHG. biotan to command, bid, G. bieten, D. bieden,
to offer, also to Gr. to learn by inquiry, Skr. budh to be awake, to
heed, present OSlav. bud to be awake, E. bode, v. The word now has
the form of OE. bidden to ask, but the meaning of OE. beden to
command, except in "to bid beads." sq. root30.]

1. To make an offer of; to propose. Specifically : To offer to pay (
a certain price, as for a thing put up at auction), or to take (a
certain price, as for work to be done under a contract).

2. To offer in words; to declare, as a wish, a greeting, a threat, or
defiance, etc.; as, to bid one welcome; to bid good morning,
farewell, etc.
Neither bid him God speed. 2. John 10.
He bids defiance to the gaping crowd. Granrille.

3. To proclaim; to declare publicly; to make known. [Mostly obs.]
"Our banns thrice bid !" Gay.

4. To order; to direct; to enjoin; to command.
That Power who bids the ocean ebb and flow. Pope
Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee. Matt. xiv. 28
I was bid to pick up shells. D. Jerrold.

5. To invite; to call in; to request to come.
As many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. Matt. xxii. 9
To bid beads, to pray with beads, as the Roman Catholics; to
distinguish each bead by a prayer. [Obs.] -- To bid defiance to , to
defy openly; to brave.
 -- To bid fair, to offer a good prospect; to make fair promise; to
seem likely.

Syn.
 -- To offer; proffer; tender; propose; order; command; direct;
charge; enjoin.

BID
Bid,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Bid.

BID
Bid, n.

Defn: An offer of a price, especially at auctions; a statement of a
sum which one will give for something to be received, or will take
for something to be done or furnished; that which is offered.

BID
Bid, v. i. Etym: [See Bid, v. t.]

1. To pray. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To make a bid; to state what one will pay or take.

BIDALE
Bid"ale`, n. Etym: [Bid + ale.]

Defn: An invitation of friends to drink ale at some poor man's house,
and there to contribute in charity for his relief. [Prov. Eng.]

BIDARKEE; BIDARKA
Bi*dar"kee, Bi*dar"ka, n. [Russ. baidarka, dim. Cf. Baidar.]

Defn: A portable boat made of skins stretched on a frame. [Alaska]
The Century.

BIDDABLE
Bid"da*ble, a.

Defn: Obedient; docile. [Scot.]

BIDDEN
Bid"den, p. p.

Defn: of Bid.

BIDDER
Bid"der, n. Etym: [AS. biddere. ]

Defn: One who bids or offers a price. Burke.

BIDDERY WARE
Bid"der*y ware`. Etym: [From Beder or Bidar a town in India.]

Defn: A kind of metallic ware made in India. The material is a
composition of zinc, tin, and lead, in which ornaments of gold and
silver are inlaid or damascened. [Spelt also bidry, bidree, bedery,
beder.]

BIDDING
Bid"ding, n.

1. Command; order; a proclamation or notifying. "Do thou thy master's
bidding." Shak.

2. The act or process of making bids; an offer; a proposal of a
price, as at an auction.

BIDDING PRAYER
Bid"ding prayer`.

1. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The prayer for the souls of benefactors, said before the
sermon.

2. (Angl. Ch.)

Defn: The prayer before the sermon, with petitions for various
specified classes of persons.

BIDDY
Bid"dy, n. Etym: [Etymology uncertain.]

Defn: A name used in calling a hen or chicken. Shak.

BIDDY
Bid"dy, n. Etym: [A familiar form of Bridget.]

Defn: An Irish serving woman or girl. [Colloq.]

BIDE
Bide, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bided; p. pr. & vb. n. Biding.] Etym: [OE.
biden, AS. bidan; akin to OHG. bitan, Goth. beidan, Icel. bi; perh.
orig., to wait with trust, and akin to bid. See Bid, v. t., and cf.
Abide.]

1. To dwell; to inhabit; to abide; to stay.
All knees to thee shall bow of them that bide In heaven or earth, or
under earth, in hell. Milton.

2. To remain; to continue or be permanent in a place or state; to
continue to be. Shak.

BIDE
Bide, v. t.

1. To encounter; to remain firm under (a hardship); to endure; to
suffer; to undergo.
Poor naked wretches, wheresoe'er you are, That bide the pelting of
this pitiless storm. Shak.

2. To wait for; as, I bide my time. See Abide.

BIDENT
Bi"dent, n. Etym: [L. bidens, -entis, having two prongs; bis twice +
dens a tooth.]

Defn: An instrument or weapon with two prongs.

BIDENTAL
Bi*den"tal, a.

Defn: Having two teeth. Swift.

BIDENTATE
Bi*den"tate, a. (Bot. & Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two teeth or two toothlike processes; two-toothed.

BIDET
Bi*det", n. Etym: [F. bidet, perh. fr. Celtic; cr. Gael. bideach very
little, diminutive, bidein a diminutive animal, W. bidan a weakly or
sorry wretch.]

1. A small horse formerly allowed to each trooper or dragoon for
carrying his baggage. B. Jonson.

2. A kind of bath tub for sitting baths; a sitz bath.

BIDIGITATE
Bi*dig"i*tate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + digitate.]

Defn: Having two fingers or fingerlike projections.

BIDING
Bid"ing, n.

Defn: Residence; habitation. Rowe.

BIELA'S COMET
Bie"la's com"et. (Astron.)

Defn: A periodic coment, discovered by Biela in 1826, which revolves
around the sun in 6.6 years. The November meteors (Andromedes or
Bielids) move in its orbit, and may be fragments of the comet.

BIELD
Bield, n.

Defn: A shelter. Same as Beild. [Scot.]

BIELD
Bield, v. t.

Defn: To shelter. [Scot.]

BIELID
Bie"lid, n. (Astron.)

Defn: See Andromede.

BIENNIAL
Bi*en"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. biennalis and biennis, fr. biennium a space
of two years; bis twice + annus year. Cf. Annual.]

1. Happening, or taking place, once in two years; as, a biennial
election.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Continuing for two years, and then perishing, as plants which
form roots and leaves the first year, and produce fruit the second.

BIENNIAL
Bi*en"ni*al, n.

1. Something which takes place or appears once in two years; esp. a
biennial examination.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant which exists or lasts for two years.

BIENNIALLY
Bi*en"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Once in two years.

BIER
Bier, n. Etym: [OE. bæe, beere, AS. b, b; akin to D. baar, OHG. bara,
G. bahre, Icel barar, Dbaare, L. feretrum, Gr. , from the same bear
to produce. See 1st Bear, and cf. Barrow.]

1. A handbarrow or portable frame on which a corpse is placed or
borne to the grave.

2. (Weaving)

Defn: A count of forty threads in the warp or chain of woolen cloth.
Knight.

BIERBALK
Bier"balk`, n. Etym: [See Bier, and Balk, n.]

Defn: A church road (e. g., a path across fields) for funerals.
[Obs.] Homilies.

BIESTINGS; BEESTINGS
Biest"ings, Beest"ings, n. pl. Etym: [OE. bestynge, AS. b, fr. b,
beost; akin to D. biest, OHG. biost, G. biest; of unknown origin.]

Defn: The first milk given by a cow after calving. B. Jonson.
The thick and curdy milk . . . commonly called biestings. Newton.
(1574).

BIFACIAL
Bi*fa"cial, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + facial.]

Defn: Having the opposite surfaces alike.

BIFARIOUS
Bi*fa"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. bifarius; bis twice + fari to speak. Cf.
Gr.

1. Twofold; arranged in two rows.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Pointing two ways, as leaves that grow only on opposite sides
of a branch; in two vertical rows.

BIFARIOUSLY
Bi*fa"ri*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a bifarious manner.

BIFEROUS
Bif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. bifer; bis twice + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Bearing fruit twice a year.

BIFFIN
Bif"fin, n. Etym: [Cf. Beaufin.]

1. A sort of apple peculiar to Norfolk, Eng.

Note: [Sometimes called beaufin; but properly beefin (it is said),
from its resemblance to raw beef.] Wright.

2. A baked apple pressed down into a flat, round cake; a dried apple.
Dickens.

BIFID
Bi"fid, a. Etym: [L. bifidus; bis twice + root of findere to cleave
or split: cf. F. bifide.]

Defn: Cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening with
a cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins.

BIFIDATE
Bif"i*date, a. Etym: [L. bifidatus.]

Defn: See Bifid.

BIFILAR
Bi*fi"lar, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + filar.]

Defn: Two-threaded; involving the use of two threads; as, bifilar
suspension; a bifilar balance. Bifilar micrometer (often called a
bifilar), an instrument form measuring minute distances or angles by
means of two very minute threads (usually spider lines), one of
which, at least, is movable; -- more commonly called a filar
micrometer.

BIFLABELLATE
Bi`fla*bel"late, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + flabellate.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Flabellate on both sides.

BIFLAGELLATE
Bi`fla*gel"late, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + flagellate.]

Defn: Having two long, narrow, whiplike appendages.

BIFLORATE; BIFLOROUS
Bi*flo"rate, Bi*flo"rous, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + flos, floris,
flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing two flowers; two-flowered.

BIFOCAL
Bi*fo"cal, a. [Pref. bi-+ focal.]

Defn: Having two foci, as some spectacle lenses.

BIFOLD
Bi"fold, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + fold.]

Defn: Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc. Shak.

BIFOLIATE
Bi*fo"li*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + foliate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two leaves; two-leaved.

BIFOLIOLATE
Bi*fo"li*o*late, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + foliolate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two leaflets, as some compound leaves.

BIFORATE
Bif"o*rate, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + foratus, p. p. of forare to bore
or pierce.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two perforations.

BIFORINE
Bif"o*rine, n. Etym: [L. biforis, biforus, having two doors; bis
twice + foris door.] (Bot.)

Defn: An oval sac or cell, found in the leaves of certain plants of
the order Araceæ. It has an opening at each end through which
raphides, generated inside, are discharged.

BIFORKED
Bi"forked, a.

Defn: Bifurcate.

BIFORM
Bi"form, a. Etym: [L. biformis; bis twice + forma shape: cf. F.
biforme.]

Defn: Having two forms, bodies, or shapes. Croxall.

BIFORMED
Bi"formed, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + form.]

Defn: Having two forms. Johnson.

BIFORMITY
Bi*form"i*ty, n.

Defn: A double form.

BIFORN
Bi*forn", prep. & adv.

Defn: Before. [Obs.]

BIFOROUS
Bif"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. biforis having two doors; bis twice, two +
foris door.]

Defn: See Biforate.

BIFRONTED
Bi*front"ed, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + front.]

Defn: Having two fronts. "Bifronted Janus." Massinger.

BIFURCATE; BIFURCATED
Bi*fur"cate, Bi*fur"ca*ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + furcate.]

Defn: Two-pronged; forked.

BIFURCATE
Bi*fur"cate, v. i.

Defn: To divide into two branches.

BIFURCATION
Bi`fur*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bifurcation.]

Defn: A forking, or division into two branches.

BIFURCOUS
Bi*fur"cous, a. Etym: [L. bifurcus; bis twice + furca fork.]

Defn: See Bifurcate, a. [R.] Coles.

BIG
Big, a. [compar. Bigger; superl. Biggest.] Etym: [Perh. from Celtic;
cf. W. beichiog, beichiawg, pregnant, with child, fr. baich burden,
Arm. beac'h; or cf. OE. bygly, Icel. biggiligr, (properly) habitable;
(then) magnigicent, excellent, fr. OE. biggen, Icel. byggja, to
dwell, build, akin to E. be.]

1. Having largeness of size; of much bulk or magnitude; of great
size; large. "He's too big to go in there." Shak.

2. Great with young; pregnant; swelling; ready to give birth or
produce; -- often figuratively.
[Day] big with the fate of Cato and of Rome. Addison.

3. Having greatness, fullness, importance, inflation, distention,
etc., whether in a good or a bad sense; as, a big heart; a big voice;
big looks; to look big. As applied to looks, it indicates haughtiness
or pride.
God hath not in heaven a bigger argument. Jer. Taylor.

Note: Big is often used in self-explaining compounds; as, big-boned;
big-sounding; big-named; big-voiced. To talk big, to talk loudly,
arrogantly, or pretentiously.
I talked big to them at first. De Foe.

Syn.
 -- Bulky; large; great; massive; gross.

BIG; BIGG
Big, Bigg, n. Etym: [OE. bif, bigge; akin to Icel. bygg, Dan. byg,
Sw. bjugg.] (Bot.)

Defn: Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind.
"Bear interchanges in local use, now with barley, now with bigg." New
English Dict.

BIG; BIGG
Big, Bigg, v. t. Etym: [OE. biggen, fr. Icel. byggja to inhabit, to
build, b (neut.) to dwell (active) to make ready. See Boor, and
Bound.]

Defn: To build. [Scot. & North of Eng. Dial.] Sir W. Scott.

BIGA
Bi"ga, n. Etym: [L.] (Antiq.)

Defn: A two-horse chariot.

BIGAM
Big"am, n. Etym: [L. bigamus twice married: cf. F. bigame. See
Bigamy.]

Defn: A bigamist. [Obs.]

BIGAMIST
Big"a*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. Digamist.]

Defn: One who is guilty of bigamy. Ayliffe.

BIGAMOUS
Big"a*mous, a.

Defn: Guilty of bigamy; involving bigamy; as, a bigamous marriage.

BIGAMY
Big"a*my, n. Etym: [OE. bigamie, fr. L. bigamus twice married; bis
twice + Gr. marriage; prob. akin to Skt. jamis related, and L. gemini
twins, the root meaning to bind, join: cf. F. bigamie. Cf. Digamy.]
(Law)

Defn: The offense of marrying one person when already legally married
to another. Wharton.

Note: It is not strictly correct to call this offense bigamy: it more
properly denominated polygamy, i. e., having a plurality of wives or
husbands at once, and in several statutes in the United States the
offense is classed under the head of polygamy. In the canon law
bigamy was the marrying of two virgins successively, or one after the
death of the other, or once marrying a widow. This disqualified a man
for orders, and for holding ecclesiastical offices. Shakespeare uses
the word in the latter sense. Blackstone. Bouvier.
Base declension and loathed bigamy. Shak.

BIGARREAU; BIGAROON
Big`ar*reau", Big`a*roon", n. Etym: [F. bigarreau, fr. bigarré
variegated.] (Bot.)

Defn: The large white-heart cherry.

BIG-BELLIED
Big"-bel`lied, a.

Defn: Having a great belly; as, a big-bellied man or flagon; advanced
in pregnancy.

BIG BEND STATE
Big Bend State.

Defn: Tennessee; -- a nickname.

BIGEMINATE
Bi*gem"i*nate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + geminate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a forked petiole, and a pair of leaflets at the end of
each division; biconjugate; twice paired; -- said of a decompound
leaf.

BIGENTIAL
Bi*gen"tial, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + L. gens, gentis, tribe.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Including two tribes or races of men.

BIGEYE
Big"eye`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the genus Priacanthus, remarkable for the large size
of the eye.

BIGG
Bigg, n. & v.

Defn: See Big, n. & v.

BIGGEN
Big"gen, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make or become big; to enlarge. [Obs. or Dial.] Steele.

BIGGER
Big"ger, a.

Defn: , compar. of Big.

BIGGEST
Big"gest, a.

Defn: , superl. of Big.

BIGGIN
Big"gin, n. Etym: [F. béguin, prob. from the cap worn by the
Béguines. Cf. Beguine, Biggon.]

Defn: A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head.
An old woman's biggin for a nightcap. Massinger.

BIGGIN
Big"gin, n.

Defn: A coffeepot with a strainer or perforated metallic vessel for
holding the ground coffee, through which boiling water is poured; --
so called from Mr. Biggin, the inventor.

BIGGIN; BIGGING
Big"gin, Big"ging, n. Etym: [OE. bigging. See Big, Bigg, v. t.]

Defn: A building. [Obs.]

BIGGON; BIGGONNET
Big"gon, Big"gon*net, n. Etym: [F. béguin and OF. beguinet, dim of
béguin. See Biggin a cap.]

Defn: A cap or hood with pieces covering the ears.

BIGHA
Big"ha, n.

Defn: A measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre to
an acre.

BIGHORN
Big"horn`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis or Caprovis montana).

BIGHT
Bight, n. Etym: [OE. bi a bending; cf. Sw. & Dan. bugt bend, bay; fr.
AS. byht, fr. b. sq. root88. Cf. Bout, Bought a bend, and see Bow,
v.]

1. A corner, bend, or angle; a hollow; as, the bight of a horse's
knee; the bight of an elbow.

2. (Geog.)

Defn: A bend in a coast forming an open bay; as, the Bight of Benin.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The double part of a rope when folded, in distinction from the
ends; that is, a round, bend, or coil not including the ends; a loop.

BIGLANDULAR
Bi*glan"du*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + glandular.]

Defn: Having two glands, as a plant.

BIGLY
Big"ly, adv. Etym: [From Big, a.]

Defn: In a tumid, swelling, blustering manner; haughtily; violently.
He brawleth bigly. Robynson (More's Utopia. )

BIGNESS
Big"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being big; largeness; size; bulk.

BIGNONIA
Big*no"ni*a, n. Etym: [Named from the Abbé Bignon.] (Bot.)

Defn: A large genus of American, mostly tropical, climbing shrubs,
having compound leaves and showy somewhat tubular flowers. B.
capreolata is the cross vine of the Southern United States. The
trumpet creeper was formerly considered to be of this genus.

BIGNONIACEOUS
Big*no`ni*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which
the trumpet flower is an example.

BIGOT
Big"ot, n. Etym: [F. bigot a bigot or hypocrite, a name once given to
the Normans in France. Of unknown origin; possibly akin to Sp. bigote
a whisker; hombre de bigote a man of spirit and vigor; cf. It. s-
bigottire to terrify, to appall. Wedgwood and others maintain that
bigot is from the same source as Beguine, Beghard.]

1. A hypocrite; esp., a superstitious hypocrite. [Obs.]

2. A person who regards his own faith and views in matters of
religion as unquestionably right, and any belief or opinion opposed
to or differing from them as unreasonable or wicked. In an extended
sense, a person who is intolerant of opinions which conflict with his
own, as in politics or morals; one obstinately and blindly devoted to
his own church, party, belief, or opinion.
To doubt, where bigots had been content to wonder and believe.
Macaulay.

BIGOT
Big"ot, a.

Defn: Bigoted. [Obs.]
In a country more bigot than ours. Dryden.

BIGOTED
Big"ot*ed, a.

Defn: Obstinately and blindly attached to some creed, opinion
practice, or ritual; unreasonably devoted to a system or party, and
illiberal toward the opinions of others. "Bigoted to strife." Byron.

Syn.
 -- Prejudiced; intolerant; narrow-minded.

BIGOTEDLY
Big"ot*ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a bigot.

BIGOTRY
Big"ot*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bigoterie.]

1. The state of mind of a bigot; obstinate and unreasoning attachment
of one's own belief and opinions, with narrow-minded intolerance of
beliefs opposed to them.

2. The practice or tenets of a bigot.

BIGWIG
Big"wig`, n. Etym: [Big,a.+ wig.]

Defn: A person of consequence; as, the bigwigs of society. [Jocose]
In our youth we have heard him spoken of by the bigwigs with extreme
condescension. Dickens.

BIG-WIGGED
Big"-wigged`, a.

Defn: characterized by pomposity of manner. [Eng.]

BIHYDROGURET
Bi`hy*drog"u*ret, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + hydroguret.] (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of two atoms of hydrogen with some other substance.
[Obs.]

BIJOU
Bi*jou", n.; pl. Bijoux. Etym: [F.; of uncertain origin.]

Defn: A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and of
elegant workmanship.

BIJOUTRY
Bi*jou"try, n. Etym: [F. bijouterie. See Bijou.]

Defn: Small articles of virtu, as jewelry, trinkets, etc.

BIJUGATE
Bij"u*gate, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + jugatus, p. p. of jugare to
join.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two pairs, as of leaflets.

BIJUGOUS
Bij"u*gous, a. Etym: [L. bijugus yoked two together; bis twice +
jugum yoke, pair.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bijugate.

BIKE
Bike, n. Etym: [Ethymol. unknown.]

Defn: A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm. [Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.

BIKH
Bikh, n. Etym: [Hind., fr. Skr. visha poison.] (Bot.)

Defn: The East Indian name of a virulent poison extracted from
Aconitum ferox or other species of aconite: also, the plant itself.

BILABIATE
Bi*la"bi*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + labiate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two lips, as the corols of certain flowers.

BILACINIATE
Bi`la*cin"i*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + laciniate.]

Defn: Doubly fringed.

BILALO
Bi*la"lo, n.

Defn: A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay of
Manila.

BILAMELLATE; BILAMELLATED
Bi*lam"el*late, Bi*lam"el*la`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + lamellate.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Formed of two plates, as the stigma of the Mimulus; also,
having two elevated ridges, as in the lip of certain flowers.

BILAMINAR; BILAMINATE
Bi*lam"i*nar, Bi*lam"i*nate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + laminar,
laminate.]

Defn: Formed of, or having, two laminæ, or thin plates.

BILAND
Bi"land, n.

Defn: A byland. [Obs.] Holland.

BILANDER
Bil"an*der, n. Etym: [D. bijlander; bij by + land land, country.]
(Naut.)

Defn: A small two-masted merchant vessel, fitted only for coasting,
or for use in canals, as in Holland.
Why choose we, then, like bilanders to creep Along the coast, and
land in view to keep Dryden.

BILATERAL
Bi*lat"er*al, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + lateral: cf. F. bilatéral.]

1. Having two sides; arranged upon two sides; affecting two sides or
two parties.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the two sides of a central area or organ,
or of a central axis; as, bilateral symmetry in animals, where there
is a similarity of parts on the right and left sides of the body.

BILATERALITY
Bi*lat`er*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: State of being bilateral.

BILBERRY
Bil"ber*ry, n.; pl. Bilberries (. Etym: [Cf. Dan. böllebær bilberry,
where bölle is perh. akin to E. ball.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The European whortleberry (Vaccinium myrtillus); also, its
edible bluish black fruit.
There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry. Shak.

2. (Bot.) Any similar plant or its fruit; esp., in America, the
species Vaccinium myrtilloides, V. cæspitosum and V. uliginosum.

BILBO
Bil"bo, n.; pl. Bilboes (.

1. A rapier; a sword; so named from Bilbao, in Spain. Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: A long bar or bolt of iron with sliding shackles, and a lock at
the end, to confine the feet of prisoners or offenders, esp. on board
of ships.
Methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Shak.

BILBOQUET
Bil"bo*quet, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: The toy called cup and ball.

BILCOCK
Bil"cock, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European water rail.

BILDSTEIN
Bild"stein, n. Etym: [G., fr. bild image, likeness + stein stone.]

Defn: Same as Agalmatolite.

BILE
Bile, n. Etym: [L. bilis: cf. F. bile.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: A yellow, or greenish, viscid fluid, usually alkaline in
reaction, secreted by the liver. It passes into the intestines, where
it aids in the digestive process. Its characteristic constituents are
the bile salts, and coloring matters.

2. Bitterness of feeling; choler; anger; ill humor; as, to stir one's
bile. Prescott.

Note: The ancients considered the bile to be the "humor" which caused
irascibility.

BILE
Bile, n. Etym: [OE. byle, bule, bele, AS. b, b; skin to D. buil, G.
beule, and Goth. ufbauljan to puff up. Cf. Boil a tumor, Bulge.]

Defn: A boil. [Obs. or Archaic]

BILECTION
Bi*lec"tion, n. (Arch.)

Defn: That portion of a group of moldings which projects beyond the
general surface of a panel; a bolection.

BILESTONE
Bile"stone`, n. Etym: [Bile + stone.]

Defn: A gallstone, or biliary calculus. See Biliary. E. Darwin.

BILGE
Bilge, n. Etym: [A different orthography of bulge, of same origin as
belly. Cf. Belly, Bulge.]

1. The protuberant part of a cask, which is usually in the middle.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: That part of a ship's hull or bottom which is broadest and most
nearly flat, and on which she would rest if aground.

3. Bilge water. Bilge free (Naut.), stowed in such a way that the
bilge is clear of everything; -- said of a cask.
 -- Bilge pump, a pump to draw the bilge water from the gold of a
ship.
 -- Bilge water (Naut.), water which collects in the bilge or bottom
of a ship or other vessel. It is often allowed to remain till it
becomes very offensive.
 -- Bilge ways, the timbers which support the cradle of a ship upon
the ways, and which slide upon the launching ways in launching the
vessel.

BILGE
Bilge, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bilged (; p. pr. & vb. n. Bilging.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: To suffer a fracture in the bilge; to spring a leak by a
fracture in the bilge.

2. To bulge.

BILGE
Bilge, v. t.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: To fracture the bilge of, or stave in the bottom of (a ship or
other vessel).

2. To cause to bulge.

BILGY
Bil"gy, a.

Defn: Having the smell of bilge water.

BILIARY
Bil"ia*ry, a. Etym: [L. bilis bile: cf. F. biliaire.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Relating or belonging to bile; conveying bile; as, biliary
acids; biliary ducts. Biliary calculus (Med.), a gallstone, or a
concretion formed in the gall bladder or its duct.

BILIATION
Bil`i*a"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The production and excretion of bile.

BILIFEROUS
Bi*lif"er*ous, a.

Defn: Generating bile.

BILIFUSCIN
Bil`i*fus"cin, n. Etym: [L. bilis bile + fuscus dark.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A brownish green pigment found in human gallstones and in old
bile. It is a derivative of bilirubin.

BILIMBI; BILIMBING
Bi*lim"bi, Bi*lim"bing, n. Etym: [Malay.]

Defn: The berries of two East Indian species of Averrhoa, of the
Oxalideæ or Sorrel family. They are very acid, and highly esteemed
when preserved or pickled. The juice is used as a remedy for skin
diseases. [Written also blimbi and blimbing.]

BILIMENT
Bil"i*ment, n.

Defn: A woman's ornament; habiliment. [Obs.]

BILIN
Bi"lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. biline, from L. bilis bile.] (Physiol.
Chem.)

Defn: A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtained
from bile by the action of alcohol and ether. It is composed of a
mixture of the sodium salts of the bile acids.

BILINEAR
Bi*lin"e*ar, a. (Math.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or included by, two lines; as, bilinear
coördinates.

BILINGUAL
Bi*lin"gual, a. Etym: [L. bilinguis; bis twice + lingua tongue,
language.]

Defn: Containing, or consisting of, two languages; expressed in two
languages; as, a bilingual inscription; a bilingual dictionary.
 -- Bi*lin"gual*ly, adv.

BILINGUALISM
Bi*lin"gual*ism, n.

Defn: Quality of being bilingual.
The bilingualism of King's English. Earle.

BILINGUAR
Bi*lin"guar, a.

Defn: See Bilingual.

BILINGUIST
Bi*lin"guist, n.

Defn: One versed in two languages.

BILINGUOUS
Bi*lin"guous, a. Etym: [L. bilinguis.]

Defn: Having two tongues, or speaking two languages. [Obs.]

BILIOUS
Bil"ious, a. Etym: [L. biliosus, fr. bilis bile.]

1. Of or pertaining to the bile.

2. Disordered in respect to the bile; troubled with and excess of
bile; as, a bilious patient; dependent on, or characterized by, an
excess of bile; as, bilious symptoms.

3. Choleric; passionate; ill tempered. "A bilious old nabob."
Macaulay. Bilious temperament. See Temperament.

BILIOUSNESS
Bil"ious*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being bilious.

BILIPRASIN
Bil`i*pra"sin, n. Etym: [L. bilis bile + prasinus green.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A dark green pigment found in small quantity in human
gallstones.

BILIRUBIN
Bil`i*ru"bin, n. Etym: [L. bilis biel + ruber red.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in that
from carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment.

BILITERAL
Bi*lit"er*al, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + littera letter.]

Defn: Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskrit
verb. Sir W. Jones.
 -- n.

Defn: A word, syllable, or root, consisting of two letters.

BILITERALISM
Bi*lit"er*al*ism, n.

Defn: The property or state of being biliteral.

BILIVERDIN
Bil`i*ver"din, n. Etym: [L. bilis bile + viridis green. Cf. Verdure.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: A green pigment present in the bile, formed from bilirubin by
oxidation.

BILK
Bilk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bilked; p. pr. & vb. n. Bilking.] Etym:
[Origin unknown. Cf. Balk.]

Defn: To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, by
nonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slip
to; as, to bilk a creditor. Thackeray.

BILK
Bilk, n.

1. A thwarting an adversary in cribbage by spoiling his score; a
balk.

2. A cheat; a trick; a hoax. Hudibras.

3. Nonsense; vain words. B. Jonson.

4. A person who tricks a creditor; an untrustworthy, tricky person.
Marryat.

BILL
Bill, n. Etym: [OE. bile, bille, AS. bile beak of a bird, proboscis;
cf. Ir. & Gael. bil, bile, mouth, lip, bird's bill. Cf. Bill a
weapon.]

Defn: A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal.
Milton.

BILL
Bill, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Billed; p. pr. & vb. n. Billing.]

1. To strike; to peck. [Obs.]

2. To join bills, as doves; to caress in fondness. "As pigeons bill."
Shak. To bill and coo, to interchange caresses; -- said of doves;
also of demonstrative lovers. Thackeray.

BILL
Bill, n.

Defn: The bell, or boom, of the bittern
The bittern's hollow bill was heard. Wordsworth.

BILL
Bill, n. Etym: [OE. bil, AS. bill, bil; akin to OS. bil sword, OHG.
bill pickax, G. bille. Cf. Bill bea

1. A cutting instrument, with hook-shaped point, and fitted with a
handle; -- used in pruning, etc.; a billhook. When short, called a
hand bill, when long, a hedge bill.

2. A weapon of infantry, in the 14th and 15th centuries. A common
form of bill consisted of a broad, heavy, double-edged, hook-shaped
blade, having a short pike at the back and another at the top, and
attached to the end of a long staff.
France had no infantry that dared to face the English bows end bills.
Macaulay.

3. One who wields a bill; a billman. Strype.

4. A pickax, or mattock. [Obs.]

5. (Naut.)

Defn: The extremity of the arm of an anchor; the point of or beyond
the fluke.

BILL
Bill, v. t.

Defn: To work upon ( as to dig, hoe, hack, or chop anything) with a
bill.

BILL
Bill, n. Etym: [OE. bill, bille, fr. LL. billa (or OF. bille), for L.
bulla anything rounded, LL., seal, stamp, letter, edict, roll; cf. F.
bille a ball, prob. fr. Ger.; cf. MHG. bickel, D. bikkel, dice. Cf.
Bull papal edict, Billet a paper.]

1. (Law)

Defn: A declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the
complainant has suffered from the defendant, or a fault committed by
some person against a law.

2. A writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a
future day or on demand, with or without interest, as may be stated
in the document. [Eng.]

Note: In the United States, it is usually called a note, a note of
hand, or a promissory note.

3. A form or draft of a law, presented to a legislature for
enactment; a proposed or projected law.

4. A paper, written or printed, and posted up or given away, to
advertise something, as a lecture, a play, or the sale of goods; a
placard; a poster; a handbill.
She put up the bill in her parlor window. Dickens.

5. An account of goods sold, services rendered, or work done, with
the price or charge; a statement of a creditor's claim, in gross or
by items; as, a grocer's bill.

6. Any paper, containing a statement of particulars; as, a bill of
charges or expenditures; a weekly bill of mortality; a bill of fare,
etc. Bill of adventure. See under Adventure.
 -- Bill of costs, a statement of the items which form the total
amount of the costs of a party to a suit or action.
 -- Bill of credit. (a) Within the constitution of the United States,
a paper issued by a State, on the mere faith and credit of the State,
and designed to circulate as money. No State shall "emit bills of
credit." U. S. Const. Peters. Wharton. Bouvier (b) Among merchants, a
letter sent by an agent or other person to a merchant, desiring him
to give credit to the bearer for goods or money.
 -- Bill of divorce, in the Jewish law, a writing given by the
husband to the wife, by which the marriage relation was dissolved.
Jer. iii. 8.
 -- Bill of entry, a written account of goods entered at the
customhouse, whether imported or intended for exportation.
 -- Bill of exceptions. See under Exception.
 -- Bill of exchange (Com.), a written order or request from one
person or house to another, desiring the latter to pay to some person
designated a certain sum of money therein generally is, and, to be
negotiable, must be, made payable to order or to bearer. So also the
order generally expresses a specified time of payment, and that it is
drawn for value. The person who draws the bil is called the drawer,
the person on whom it is drawn is, before acceptance, called the
drawee, -- after acceptance, the acceptor; the person to whom the
money is directed to be paid is called the payee. The person making
the order may himself be the payee. The bill itself is frequently
called a draft. See Exchange. Chitty.
 -- Bill of fare, a written or printed enumeration of the dishes
served at a public table, or of the dishes (with prices annexed)
which may be ordered at a restaurant, etc.
 -- Bill of health, a certificate from the proper authorities as to
the state of health of a ship's company at the time of her leaving
port.
 -- Bill of indictment, a written accusation lawfully presented to a
grand jury. If the jury consider the evidence sufficient to support
the accusation, they indorse it "A true bill," or "Not found," or
"Ignoramus", or "Ignored." -- Bill of lading, a written account of
goods shipped by any person, signed by the agent of the owner of the
vessel, or by its master, acknowledging the receipt of the goods, and
promising to deliver them safe at the place directed, dangers of the
sea excepted. It is usual for the master to sign two, three, or four
copies of the bill; one of which he keeps in possession, one is kept
by the shipper, and one is sent to the consignee of the goods.
 -- Bill of mortality, an official statement of the number of deaths
in a place or district within a given time; also, a district required
to be covered by such statement; as, a place within the bills of
mortality of London.
 -- Bill of pains and penalties, a special act of a legislature which
inflicts a punishment less than death upon persons supposed to be
guilty of treason or felony, without any conviction in the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings. Bouvier. Wharton.
 -- Bill of parcels, an account given by the seller to the buyer of
the several articles purchased, with the price of each.
 -- Bill of particulars (Law), a detailed statement of the items of a
plaintiff's demand in an action, or of the defendant's set-off.
 -- Bill of rights, a summary of rights and privileges claimed by a
people. Such was the declaration presented by the Lords and Commons
of England to the Prince and Princess of Orange in 1688, and enacted
in Parliament after they became king and queen. In America, a bill or
declaration of rights is prefixed to most of the constitutions of the
several States.
 -- Bill of sale, a formal instrument for the conveyance or transfer
of goods and chattels.
 -- Bill of sight, a form of entry at the customhouse, by which
goods, respecting which the importer is not possessed of full
information, may be provisionally landed for examination.
 -- Bill of store, a license granted at the customhouse to merchants,
to carry such stores and provisions as are necessary for a voyage,
custom free. Wharton.
 -- Bills payable (pl.), the outstanding unpaid notes or acceptances
made and issued by an individual or firm.
 -- Bills receivable (pl.), the unpaid promissory notes or
acceptances held by an individual or firm. McElrath.
 -- A true bill, a bill of indictment sanctioned by a grand jury.

BILL
Bill, v. t.

1. To advertise by a bill or public notice.

2. To charge or enter in a bill; as, to bill goods.

BILLABONG
Bil"la*bong`, n. [Native name.]

Defn: In Australia, a blind channel leading out from a river; --
sometimes called an anabranch. This is the sense of the word as used
in the Public Works Department; but the term has also been locally
applied to mere back-waters forming stagnant pools and to certain
water channels arising from a source.

BILLAGE
Bil"lage, n.

Defn: and v. t. & i. Same as Bilge.

BILLARD
Bil"lard, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An English fish, allied to the cod; the coalfish. [Written also
billet and billit.]

BILLBEETLE; BILLBUG
Bill`bee"tle, or Bill"bug`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A weevil or curculio of various species, as the corn weevil.
See Curculio.

BILLBOARD
Bill"board`, n.

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of thick plank, armed with iron plates, and fixed on
the bow or fore channels of a vessel, for the bill or fluke of the
anchor to rest on. Totten.

2. A flat surface, as of a panel or of a fence, on which bills are
posted; a bulletin board.

BILL BOOK
Bill" book`. (Com.)

Defn: A book in which a person keeps an account of his notes, bills,
bills of exchange, etc., thus showing all that he issues and
receives.

BILL BROKER
Bill" bro`ker.

Defn: One who negotiates the discount of bills.

BILLED
Billed, a.

Defn: Furnished with, or having, a bill, as a bird; -- used in
composition; as, broad-billed.

BILLET
Bil"let, n. Etym: [F. billet, dim. of an OF. bille bill. See Bill a
writing.]

1. A small paper; a note; a short letter. "I got your melancholy
billet." Sterne.

2. A ticket from a public officer directing soldiers at what house to
lodge; as, a billet of residence.

BILLET
Bil"let, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Billeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Billeting.]
Etym: [From Billet a ticket.] (Mil.)

Defn: To direct, by a ticket or note, where to lodge. Hence: To
quarter, or place in lodgings, as soldiers in private houses.
Billeted in so antiquated a mansion. W. Irving.

BILLET
Bil"let, n. Etym: [F. billette, bille, log; of unknown origin; a
different word from bille ball. Cf. Billiards, Billot.]

1. A small stick of wood, as for firewood.
They shall beat out my brains with billets. Shak.

2. (Metal.)

Defn: A short bar of metal, as of gold or iron.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament in Norman work, resembling a billet of wood either
square or round.

4. (Saddlery)
(a) A strap which enters a buckle.
(b) A loop which receives the end of a buckled strap. Knight.

5. (Her.)

Defn: A bearing in the form of an oblong rectangle.

BILLET-DOUX
Bil`let-doux", n.; pl. Billets-doux. Etym: [F. billet note + doux
sweet, L. dulcis.]

Defn: A love letter or note.
A lover chanting out a billet-doux. Spectator.

BILLETHEAD
Bil"let*head`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A round piece of timber at the bow or stern of a whaleboat,
around which the harpoon lone is run out when the whale darts off.

BILLFISH
Bill"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A name applied to several distinct fishes: (a) The garfish
(Tylosurus, or Belone, longirostris) and allied species. (b) The
saury, a slender fish of the Atlantic coast (Scomberesox saurus). (c)
The Tetrapturus albidus, a large oceanic species related to the
swordfish; the spearfish. (d) The American fresh-water garpike
(Lepidosteus osseus).

BILLHEAD
Bill"head`, n.

Defn: A printed form, used by merchants in making out bills or
rendering accounts.

BILL HOLDER
Bill" hold`er.

1. A person who holds a bill or acceptance.

2. A device by means of which bills, etc., are held.

BILLHOOK
Bill"hook`, n. Etym: [Bill + hook.]

Defn: A thick, heavy knife with a hooked point, used in pruning
hedges, etc. When it has a short handle, it is sometimes called a
hand bill; when the handle is long, a hedge bill or scimiter.

BILLIARD
Bil"liard, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the game of billiards. "Smooth as is a
billiard ball." B. Jonson.

BILLIARDS
Bil"liards, n. Etym: [F. billiard billiards, OF. billart staff, cue
form playing, fr. bille log. See Billet a stick.]

Defn: A game played with ivory balls o a cloth-covered, rectangular
table, bounded by elastic cushions. The player seeks to impel his
ball with his cue so that it shall either strike (carom upon) two
other balls, or drive another ball into one of the pockets with which
the table sometimes is furnished.

BILLING
Bill"ing, a. & n.

Defn: Caressing; kissing.

BILLINGSGATE
Bil"lings*gate`, n.

1. A market near the Billings gate in London, celebrated for fish and
foul language.

2. Coarsely abusive, foul, or profane language; vituperation;
ribaldry.

BILLION
Bil"lion, n. Etym: [F. billion, arbitrarily formed fr. L. bis twice,
in imitation of million a million. See Million.]

Defn: According to the French and American method of numeration, a
thousand millions, or 1,000,000,000; according to the English method,
a million millions, or 1,000,000,000,000. See Numeration.

BILLMAN
Bill"man, n.; pl. Billmen (.

Defn: One who uses, or is armed with, a bill or hooked ax. "A billman
of the guard." Savile.

BILLON
Bil`lon", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Billet a stick.]

Defn: An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copper
or other base metal, used in coinage.

BILLOT
Bil"lot, n. Etym: [F. billot, dim. of bille. See Billet a stick.]

Defn: Bullion in the bar or mass.

BILLOW
Bil"low, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. bylgja billow, Dan. bölge, Sw. bölja;
akin to MHG. bulge billow, bag, and to E. bulge. See Bulge.]

1. A great wave or surge of the sea or other water, caused usually by
violent wind.
Whom the winds waft where'er the billows roll. Cowper.

2. A great wave or flood of anything. Milton.

BILLOW
Bil"low, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Billowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Billowing.]

Defn: To surge; to rise and roll in waves or surges; to undulate.
"The billowing snow." Prior.

BILLOWY
Bil"low*y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to billows; swelling or swollen into large
waves; full of billows or surges; resembling billows.
And whitening down the many-tinctured stream, Descends the billowy
foam. Thomson.

BILLPOSTER; BILLSTICKER
Bill"post`er, Bill"stick"er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to post handbills or posters in public
places.

BILLY
Bil"ly, n.

1. A club; esp., a policeman's club.

2. (Wool Manuf.)

Defn: A slubbing or roving machine.

BILLYBOY
Bil"ly*boy`, n.

Defn: A flat-bottomed river barge or coasting vessel. [Eng.]

BILLYCOCK; BILLYCOCK HAT
Bil"ly*cock, n., or Bil"ly*cock hat`. [Perh. from bully + cock; that
is, cocked like the hats of the bullies.]

Defn: A round, low-crowned felt hat; a wideawake. "The undignified
billycocks and pantaloons of the West."  B. H. Chamberlain.

Little acquiesced, and Ransome disguised him in a beard, and a loose
set of clothes, and a billicock hat.
Charles Reade.

BILLY GOAT
Bil"ly goat`.

Defn: A male goat. [Colloq.]

BILOBATE
Bi*lo"bate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + lobate.]

Defn: Divided into two lobes or segments.

BILOBED
Bi"lobed, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + lobe.]

Defn: Bilobate.

BILOCATION
Bi`lo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + location.]

Defn: Double location; the state or power of being in two places at
the same instant; -- a miraculous power attributed to some of the
saints. Tylor.

BILOCULAR
Bi*loc"u*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + locular: cf. F. biloculaire.]

Defn: Divided into two cells or compartments; as, a bilocular
pericarp. Gray.

BILSTED
Bil"sted, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sweet gum.

BILTONG
Bil"tong, n. Etym: [S. African.]

Defn: Lean meat cut into strips and sun-dried. H. R. Haggard.

BIMACULATE
Bi*mac"u*late, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + maculate, a.]

Defn: Having, or marked with, two spots.

BIMANA
Bim"a*na, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Bimanous.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Animals having two hands; -- a term applied by Cuvier to man as
a special order of Mammalia.

BIMANOUS
Bim"a*nous, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + manus hand.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two hands; two-handed.

BIMARGINATE
Bi*mar"gin*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + marginate.]

Defn: Having a double margin, as certain shells.

BIMASTISM
Bi*mas"tism, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + Gr. breast.] (Anat.)

Defn: The condition of having two mammæ or teats.

BIMEDIAL
Bi*me"di*al, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + medial.] (Geom.)

Defn: Applied to a line which is the sum of two lines commensurable
only in power (as the side and diagonal of a square).

BIMEMBRAL
Bi*mem"bral, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + membrum member.] (Gram.)

Defn: Having two members; as, a bimembral sentence. J. W. Gibbs.

BIMENSAL
Bi*men"sal, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + mensal.]

Defn: See Bimonthly, a. [Obs. or R.]

BIMESTRIAL
Bi*mes"tri*al, a. Etym: [L. bimestris; bis twice + mensis month.]

Defn: Continuing two months. [R.]

BIMETALLIC
Bi`me*tal"lic, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + metallic: cf. F. bimétallique.]

Defn: Of or relating to, or using, a double metallic standard (as
gold and silver) for a system of coins or currency.

BIMETALLISM
Bi*met"al*lism, n. Etym: [F. bimétalisme.]

Defn: The legalized use of two metals (as gold and silver) in the
currency of a country, at a fixed relative value; -- in opposition to
monometallism.

Note: The words bimétallisme and monométallisme are due to M.
Cernuschi [1869]. Littré.

BIMETALLIST
Bi*met"al*list, n.

Defn: An advocate of bimetallism.

BIMOLECULAR
Bi"mo*lec"u*lar, a. [Pref. bi-+ molecular.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or formed from, two molecules; as, a bimolecular
reaction (a reaction between two molecules).

BIMONTHLY
Bi*month"ly, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + monthly.]

Defn: Occurring, done, or coming, once in two months; as, bimonthly
visits; bimonthly publications.
 -- n.

Defn: A bimonthly publication.

BIMONTHLY
Bi*month"ly, adv.

Defn: Once in two months.

BIMUSCULAR
Bi*mus"cu*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + muscular.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two adductor muscles, as a bivalve mollusk.

BIN
Bin, n. Etym: [OE. binne, AS. binn manager, crib; perh. akin to D.
ben, benne, basket, and to L. benna a kind of carriage ( a Gallic
word), W. benn, men, wain, cart.]

Defn: A box, frame, crib, or inclosed place, used as a receptacle for
any commodity; as, a corn bin; a wine bin; a coal bin.

BIN
Bin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Binned; p. pr. & vb. n. Binning.]

Defn: To put into a bin; as, to bin wine.

BIN
Bin.

Defn: An old form of Be and Been. [Obs.]

BIN; BIN-
Bin*.

Defn: A euphonic form of the prefix Bi-.

BINAL
Bi"nal, a. Etym: [See Binary.]

Defn: Twofold; double. [R.] "Binal revenge, all this." Ford.

BINARSENIATE
Bin`ar*se"ni*ate, n. Etym: [Pref. bin- + arseniate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt having two equivalents of arsenic acid to one of the
base. Graham.

BINARY
Bi"na*ry, a. Etym: [L. binarius, fr. bini two by two, two at a time,
fr. root of bis twice; akin to E. two: cf. F. binaire.]

Defn: Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterized
by two (things). Binary arithmetic, that in which numbers are
expressed according to the binary scale, or in which two figures
only, 0 and 1, are used, in lieu of ten; the cipher multiplying
everything by two, as in common arithmetic by ten. Thus, 1 is one; 10
is two; 11 is three; 100 is four, etc. Davies & Peck.
 -- Binary compound (Chem.), a compound of two elements, or of an
element and a compound performing the function of an element, or of
two compounds performing the function of elements.
 -- Binary logarithms, a system of logarithms devised by Euler for
facilitating musical calculations, in which 1 is logarithm of 2,
instead of 10, as in the common logarithms, and the modulus 1.442695
instead of .43429448.
 -- Binary measure (Mus.), measure divisible by two or four; common
time.
 -- Binary nomenclature (Nat. Hist.), nomenclature in which the names
designate both genus and species.
 -- Binary scale (Arith.), a uniform scale of notation whose ratio is
two.
 -- Binary star (Astron.), a double star whose members have a
revolution round their common center of gravity.
 -- Binary theory (Chem.), the theory that all chemical compounds
consist of two constituents of opposite and unlike qualities.

BINARY
Bi"na*ry, n.

Defn: That which is constituted of two figures, things, or parts;
two; duality. Fotherby.

BINATE
Bi"nate, a. Etym: [L. bini two and two.] (Bot.)

Defn: Double; growing in pairs or couples. Gray.

BINAURAL
Bin*au"ral, a. Etym: [Pref. bin- + aural.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or used by, both ears.

BINBASHI
Bin*bash"i, n. [Turk., prop., chief of a thousand; bin thousand +
bash head.] (Mil.)

Defn: A major in the Turkish army.

BIND
Bind, v. t. [imp. Bound; p. p. Bound, formerly Bounden; p. pr. & vb.
n. Binding.] Etym: [AS. bindan, perfect tense band, bundon, p. p.
bunden; akin to D. & G. binden, Dan. binde, Sw. & Icel. binda, Goth.
bindan, Skr. bandh (for bhandh) to bind, cf. Gr. (for ) cable, and L.
offendix. sq. root90.]

1. To tie, or confine with a cord, band, ligature, chain, etc.; to
fetter; to make fast; as, to bind grain in bundles; to bind a
prisoner.

2. To confine, restrain, or hold by physical force or influence of
any kind; as, attraction binds the planets to the sun; frost binds
the earth, or the streams.
He bindeth the floods from overflowing. Job xxviii. 11.
Whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years. Luke xiii. 16.

3. To cover, as with a bandage; to bandage or dress; -- sometimes
with up; as, to bind up a wound.

4. To make fast ( a thing) about or upon something, as by tying; to
encircle with something; as, to bind a belt about one; to bind a
compress upon a part.

5. To prevent or restrain from customary or natural action; as,
certain drugs bind the bowels.

6. To protect or strengthen by a band or binding, as the edge of a
carpet or garment.

7. To sew or fasten together, and inclose in a cover; as, to bind a
book.

8. Fig.: To oblige, restrain, or hold, by authority, law, duty,
promise, vow, affection, or other moral tie; as, to bind the
conscience; to bind by kindness; bound by affection; commerce binds
nations to each other.
Who made our laws to bind us, not himself. Milton.

9. (Law)
(a) To bring (any one) under definite legal obligations; esp. under
the obligation of a bond or covenant. Abbott.
(b) To place under legal obligation to serve; to indenture; as, to
bind an apprentice; -- sometimes with out; as, bound out to service.
To bind over, to put under bonds to do something, as to appear at
court, to keep the peace, etc.
 -- To bind to, to contract; as, to bind one's self to a wife.
 -- To bind up in, to cause to be wholly engrossed with; to absorb
in.

Syn.
 -- To fetter; tie; fasten; restrain; restrict; oblige.

BIND
Bind, v. i.

1. To tie; to confine by any ligature.
They that reap must sheaf and bind. Shak.

2. To contract; to grow hard or stiff; to cohere or stick together in
a mass; as, clay binds by heat. Mortimer.

3. To be restrained from motion, or from customary or natural action,
as by friction.

4. To exert a binding or restraining influence. Locke.

BIND
Bind, n.

1. That which binds or ties.

2. Any twining or climbing plant or stem, esp. a hop vine; a bine.

3. (Metal.)

Defn: Indurated clay, when much mixed with the oxide of iron. Kirwan.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: A ligature or tie for grouping notes.

BINDER
Bind"er, n.

1. One who binds; as, a binder of sheaves; one whose trade is to
bind; as, a binder of books.

2. Anything that binds, as a fillet, cord, rope, or band; a bandage;
-- esp. the principal piece of timber intended to bind together any
building.

BINDERY
Bind"er*y, n.

Defn: A place where books, or other articles, are bound; a
bookbinder's establishment.

BINDHEIMITE
Bind"heim*ite, n. Etym: [From Bindheim, a German who analyzed it.]
(Min.)

Defn: An amorphous antimonate of lead, produced from the alteration
of other ores, as from jamesonite.

BINDING
Bind"ing, a.

Defn: That binds; obligatory. Binding beam (Arch.), the main timber
in double flooring.
 -- Binding joist (Arch.), the secondary timber in double-framed
flooring.

Syn.
 -- Obligatory; restraining; restrictive; stringent; astringent;
costive; styptic.

BINDING
Bind"ing, n.

1. The act or process of one who, or that which, binds.

2. Anything that binds; a bandage; the cover of a book, or the cover
with the sewing, etc.; something that secures the edge of cloth from
raveling.

3. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: The transoms, knees, beams, keelson, and other chief timbers
used for connecting and strengthening the parts of a vessel.

BINDINGLY
Bind"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to bind.

BINDINGNESS
Bind"ing*ness, n.

Defn: The condition or property of being binding; obligatory quality.
Coleridge.

BINDING POST
Bind"ing post`. (Elec.)

Defn: A metallic post attached to electrical apparatus for
convenience in making connections.

BINDING SCREW
Bind"ing screw`.

Defn: A set screw used to bind parts together, esp. one for making a
connection in an electrical circuit.

BINDWEED
Bind"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Convolvulus; as, greater bindweed (C.
Sepium); lesser bindweed (C. arvensis); the white, the blue, the
Syrian, bindweed. The black bryony, or Tamus, is called black
bindweed, and the Smilax aspera, rough bindweed.
The fragile bindweed bells and bryony rings. Tennyson.

BINE
Bine, n. Etym: [Bind, cf. Woodbine.]

Defn: The winding or twining stem of a hop vine or other climbing
plant.

BINERVATE
Bi*nerv"ate, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + nervus sinew, nerve.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Two-nerved; -- applied to leaves which have two longitudinal
ribs or nerves.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having only two nerves, as the wings of some insects.

BING
Bing, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. bingr, Sw. binge, G. beige, beuge. Cf.
Prov. E. bink bench, and bench coal the uppermost stratum of coal.]

Defn: A heap or pile; as, a bing of wood. "Potato bings." Burns. "A
bing of corn." Surrey. [Obs. or Dial. Eng. & Scot.]

BINIODIDE
Bin*i"o*dide, n.

Defn: Same as Diiodide.

BINK
Bink, n.

Defn: A bench. [North of Eng. & Scot.]

BINNACLE
Bin"na*cle, n. Etym: [For bittacle, corrupted (perh. by influence of
bin) fr. Pg. bitacola binnacle, fr. L. habitaculum dwelling place,
fr. habitare to dwell. See Habit, and cf. Bittacle.] (Naut.)

Defn: A case or box placed near the helmsman, containing the compass
of a ship, and a light to show it at night. Totten.

BINNY
Bin"ny, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large species of barbel (Barbus bynni), found in the Nile,
and much esteemed for food.

BINOCLE
Bin"o*cle, n. Etym: [F. binocle; L. bini two at a time + oculus eye.]
(Opt.)

Defn: A dioptric telescope, fitted with two tubes joining, so as to
enable a person to view an object with both eyes at once; a double-
barreled field glass or an opera glass.

BINOCULAR
Bin*oc"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. binoculaire. See Binocle.]

1. Having two eyes. "Most animals are binocular." Derham.

2. Pertaining to both eyes; employing both eyes at once; as,
binocular vision.

3. Adapted to the use of both eyes; as, a binocular microscope or
telescope. Brewster.

BINOCULAR
Bin*oc"u*lar, n.

Defn: A binocular glass, whether opera glass, telescope, or
microscope.

BINOCULARLY
Bin*oc"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a binocular manner.

BINOCULATE
Bin*oc"u*late, a.

Defn: Having two eyes.

BINOMIAL
Bi*no"mi*al, n. Etym: [L. bis twice + nomen name: cf. F. binome, LL.
binomius (or fr. bi- + Gr. distribution ). Cf. Monomial.] (Alg.)

Defn: An expression consisting of two terms connected by the sign
plus (+) or minus (-); as, a+b, or 7-3.

BINOMIAL
Bi*no"mi*al, a.

1. Consisting of two terms; pertaining to binomials; as, a binomial
root.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Having two names; -- used of the system by which every animal
and plant receives two names, the one indicating the genus, the other
the species, to which it belongs. Binomial theorem (Alg.), the
theorem which expresses the law of formation of any power of a
binomial.

BINOMINAL
Bi*nom"i*nal, a. Etym: [See Binomial.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to two names; binomial.

BINOMINOUS
Bi*nom"i*nous, a.

Defn: Binominal. [Obs.]

BINOTONOUS
Bi*not"o*nous, a. Etym: [L. bini two at a time + tonus, fr. Gr. ,
tone.]

Defn: Consisting of two notes; as, a binotonous cry.

BINOUS
Bi"nous, a.

Defn: Same as Binate.

BINOXALATE
Bin*ox"a*late, n. Etym: [Pref. bin- + oxalate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt having two equivalents of oxalic acid to one of the
base; an acid oxalate.

BINOXIDE
Bin*ox"ide, n. Etym: [Pref. bin- + oxide.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Dioxide.

BINTURONG
Bin"tu*rong, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small Asiatic civet of the genus Arctilis.

BINUCLEAR; BINUCLEATE
Bi*nu"cle*ar, Bi*nu"cle*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + nuclear,
nucleate.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having two nuclei; as, binucleate cells.

BINUCLEOLATE
Bi*nu"cle*o*late, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + nucleolus.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having two nucleoli.

BIOBLAST
Bi"o*blast, n. Etym: [Gr. life + -blast.] (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Bioplast.

BIOCELLATE
Bi*oc"el*late, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + ocellatus. See Ocellated.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two ocelli (eyelike spots); -- said of a wing, etc.

BIOCHEMISTRY
Bi`o*chem"is*try, n. Etym: [Gr. life + E. chemistry.] (Biol.)

Defn: The chemistry of living organisms; the chemistry of the
processes incidental to, and characteristic of, life.

BIODYNAMIC; BIODYNAMICAL
Bi`o*dy*nam"ic, Bi`o*dy*nam"ic*al, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to biodynamics, or the doctrine of vital
forces or energy.

BIODYNAMICS
Bi`o*dy*nam"ics, n. Etym: [Gr. life + E. dynamics.] (Biol.)

Defn: The doctrine of vital forces or energy.

BIOGEN
Bi"o*gen, n. Etym: [Gr. life + -gen.] (Biol.)

Defn: Bioplasm.

BIOGENESIS; BIOGENY
Bi`o*gen"e*sis, Bi*og"e*ny, n. Etym: [Gr. life + , , birth.] (Biol.)
(a) A doctrine that the genesis or production of living organisms can
take place only through the agency of living germs or parents; --
opposed to abiogenesis.
(b) Life development generally.

BIOGENETIC
Bi`o*ge*net"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to biogenesis.

BIOGENIST
Bi*og"e*nist, n.

Defn: A believer in the theory of biogenesis.

BIOGEOGRAPHY
Bi`o*ge*og"ra*phy, n. [Gr. bi`os life + E. geography.]

Defn: The branch of biology which deals with the geographical
distribution of animals and plants. It includes both zoögeography and
phytogeography. -- Bi`o*ge`o*graph"ic (#), a. --
Bi`o*ge`o*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv.

BIOGNOSIS
Bi`og*no"sis, n. Etym: [Gr. life + investigation.] (Biol.)

Defn: The investigation of life.

BIOGRAPH
Bi"o*graph, n. [Gr. bi`os life + -graph.]

1.

Defn: An animated picture machine for screen projection; a
cinematograph.

2.  [Cf. Biography.] A biographical sketch. [Rare]

BIOGRAPHER
Bi*og"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who writes an account or history of the life of a
particular person; a writer of lives, as Plutarch.

BIOGRAPHIC; BIOGRAPHICAL
Bi"o*graph"ic, Bi`o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to biography; containing biography.
 -- Bi`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

BIOGRAPHIZE
Bi*og"ra*phize, v. t.

Defn: To write a history of the life of. Southey.

BIOGRAPHY
Bi*og"ra*phy, n.; pl. Biographies. Etym: [Gr. ; life + to write: cf.
F. biographie. See Graphic.]

1. The written history of a person's life.

2. Biographical writings in general.

BIOLOGIC; BIOLOGICAL
Bi`o*log"ic, Bi`o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to biology.
 -- Bi`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

BIOLOGIST
Bi*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: A student of biology; one versed in the science of biology.

BIOLOGY
Bi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. life + -logy: cf. F. biologie.]

Defn: The science of life; that branch of knowledge which treats of
living matter as distinct from matter which is not living; the study
of living tissue. It has to do with the origin, structure,
development, function, and distribution of animals and plants.

BIOLYSIS
Bi*ol"y*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. life + a dissolving.] (Biol.)

Defn: The destruction of life.

BIOLYTIC
Bi`o*lyt"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. life + to destroy.]

Defn: Relating to the destruction of life.

BIOMAGNETIC
Bi`o*mag*net"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to biomagnetism.

BIOMAGNETISM
Bi`o*mag"net*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. life + E. magnetism.]

Defn: Animal magnetism.

BIOMETRY
Bi*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. life + -metry.]

Defn: Measurement of life; calculation of the probable duration of
human life.

BION
Bi"on, n. Etym: [Gr. living, p. pr. of to live.] (Biol.)

Defn: The physiological individual, characterized by definiteness and
independence of function, in distinction from the morphological
individual or morphon.

BIONOMY
Bi*on"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. life + law.]

Defn: Physiology. [R.] Dunglison.

BIOPHOR; BIOPHORE
Bi"o*phor` Bi"o*phore`, n. Etym: [Gr. life + bearing, fr. to bear.]
(Biol.)

Defn: One of the smaller vital units of a cell, the bearer of
vitality and heredity. See Pangen, in Supplement.

BIOPHOTOPHONE
Bi`o*pho"to*phone, n. [Gr. bi`os life + photo + fwnh` sound, voice.]

Defn: An instrument combining a cinematograph and a phonograph so
that the moving figures on the screen are accompanied by the
appropriate sounds.

BIOPLASM
Bi"o*plasm, n. Etym: [Gr. life + form, mold, fr. to mold.] (Biol.)

Defn: A name suggested by Dr. Beale for the germinal matter supposed
to be essential to the functions of all living beings; the material
through which every form of life manifests itself; unaltered
protoplasm.

BIOPLASMIC
Bi`o*plas"mic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or consisting of, bioplasm.

BIOPLAST
Bi"o*plast, n. Etym: [Gr. life + to form.] (Biol.)

Defn: A tiny mass of bioplasm, in itself a living unit and having
formative power, as a living white blood corpuscle; bioblast.

BIOPLASTIC
Bi`o*plas"tic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Bioplasmic.

BIOPSYCHIC; BIOPSYCHICAL
Bi`o*psy"chic, Bi`o*psy"chic*al, a. [Gr. bi`os life + psychic, -cal.]

Defn: Pertaining to psychical phenomena in their relation to the
living organism or to the general phenomena of life.

BIORGAN
Bi*or"gan, n. Etym: [Gr. life + E. organ.] (Biol.)

Defn: A physiological organ; a living organ; an organ endowed with
function; -- distinguished from idorgan.

BIOSCOPE
Bi"o*scope, n. [Gr. bi`os life + -scope.]

1.

Defn: A view of life; that which gives such a view.

Bagman's Bioscope: Various Views of Men and Manners. [Book Title.]
W. Bayley (1824).

2.  An animated picture machine for screen projection; a
cinematograph (which see).

BIOSTATICS
Bi`o*stat"ics, n. Etym: [Gr. life + . See Statics.] (Biol.)

Defn: The physical phenomena of organized bodies, in opposition to
their organic or vital phenomena.

BIOSTATISTICS
Bi`o*sta*tis"tics, n. Etym: [Gr. life + E. statistics.] (Biol.)

Defn: Vital statistics.

BIOTAXY
Bi"o*tax`y, n. Etym: [Gr. life + arrangement.] (Biol.)

Defn: The classification of living organisms according to their
structural character; taxonomy.

BIOTIC
Bi*ot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. pert. to life.] (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to life; as, the biotic principle.

BIOTITE
Bi"o*tite, n. Etym: [From Biot, a French naturalist.] (Min.)

Defn: Mica containing iron and magnesia, generally of a black or dark
green color; -- a common constituent of crystalline rocks. See Mica.

BIPALMATE
Bi*pal"mate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + palmate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Palmately branched, with the branches again palmated.

BIPARIETAL
Bi`pa*ri"e*tal, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + parietal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the diameter of the cranium, from one
parietal fossa to the other.

BIPAROUS
Bip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + parere to bring forth.]

Defn: Bringing forth two at a birth.

BIPARTIBLE
Bi*part"i*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. bipartible. See Bipartite.]

Defn: Capable of being divided into two parts.

BIPARTIENT
Bi*par"tient, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + partiens, p. pr. of partire to
divide.]

Defn: Dividing into two parts.
 -- n.

Defn: A number that divides another into two equal parts without a
remainder.

BIPARTILE
Bi*par"tile, a.

Defn: Divisible into two parts.

BIPARTITE
Bip"ar*tite, a. Etym: [L. bipartitus, p. p. of bipartire; bis twice +
partire. See Partite.]

1. Being in two parts; having two correspondent parts, as a legal
contract or writing, one for each party; shared by two; as, a
bipartite treaty.

2. Divided into two parts almost to the base, as a leaf; consisting
of two parts or subdivisions. Gray.

BIPARTITION
Bi`par*ti"tion, n.

Defn: The act of dividing into two parts, or of making two
correspondent parts, or the state of being so divided.

BIPECTINATE; BIPECTINATED
Bi*pec"ti*nate, Bi*pec"ti*na`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + pectinate.]
(Biol.)

Defn: Having two margins toothed like a comb.

BIPED
Bi"ped, n. Etym: [L. bipes; bis twice + pes, pedis, bipède.]

Defn: A two-footed animal, as man.

BIPED
Bi"ped, a.

Defn: Having two feet; two-footed.
By which the man, when heavenly life was ceased, Became a helpless,
naked, biped beast. Byrom.

BIPEDAL
Bip"e*dal, a. Etym: [L. bipedalis: cf. F. bipédal. See Biped, n.]

1. Having two feet; biped.

2. Pertaining to a biped.

BIPELTATE
Bi*pel"tate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + peltate.]

Defn: Having a shell or covering like a double shield.

BIPENNATE; BIPENNATED
Bi*pen"nate, Bi*pen"na*ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + pennate: cf. L.
bipennis. Cf. Bipinnate.]

Defn: Having two wings. "Bipennated insects." Derham.

BIPENNIS
Bi*pen"nis, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: An ax with an edge or blade on each side of the handle.

BIPETALOUS
Bi*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + petalous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two petals.

BIPINNARIA
Bi`pin*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. bis twice + pinna feather.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The larva of certain starfishes as developed in the free-
swimming stage.

BIPINNATE; BIPINNATED
Bi*pin"nate, Bi*pin"na*ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + pinnate; cf. F.
bipinné. Cf. Bipennate.]

Defn: Twice pinnate.

BIPINNATIFID
Bi`pin*nat"i*fid, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + pinnatifid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Doubly pinnatifid.

Note: A bipinnatifid leaf is a pinnatifid leaf having its segments or
divisions also pinnatifid. The primary divisions are pinnæ and the
secondary pinnules.

BIPLANE
Bi"plane, n. [Pref. bi- + plane.] (Aëronautics)

Defn: An aëroplane with two main supporting surfaces one above the
other.

BIPLANE
Bi"plane, a. (Aëronautics)

Defn: Having, or consisting of, two superposed planes, aërocurves, or
the like; of or pertaining to a biplane; as, a biplane rudder.

BIPLICATE
Bip"li*cate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + plicate.]

Defn: Twice folded together. Henslow.

BIPLICITY
Bi*plic"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being twice folded; reduplication. [R.] Bailey.

BIPOLAR
Bi*po"lar, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + polar. Cf. Dipolar.]

Defn: Doubly polar; having two poles; as, a bipolar cell or
corpuscle.

BIPOLARITY
Bi`po*lar"i*ty, n.

Defn: Bipolar quality.

BIPONT; BIPONTINE
Bi"pont, Bi*pont"ine, a. (Bibliog.)

Defn: Relating to books printed at Deuxponts, or Bipontium
(Zweibrücken), in Bavaria.

BIPRISM
Bi"prism, n. [Pref. bi- + prism.]

1.

Defn: A prism whose refracting angle is very nearly 180 degrees.

2.  A combination of two short rectangular glass prisms cemented
together at their diagonal faces so as to form a cube; -- called also
optical cube. It is used in one form of photometer.

BIPUNCTATE
Bi*punc"tate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + punctate.]

Defn: Having two punctures, or spots.

BIPUNCTUAL
Bi*punc"tu*al, a.

Defn: Having two points.

BIPUPILLATE
Bi*pu"pil*late, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + pupil (of the eye).] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having an eyelike spot on the wing, with two dots within it of
a different color, as in some butterflies.

BIPYRAMIDAL
Bi`py*ram"i*dal, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + pyramidal.]

Defn: Consisting of two pyramids placed base to base; having a
pyramid at each of the extremities of a prism, as in quartz crystals.

BIQUADRATE
Bi*quad"rate, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + quadrate.] (Math.)

Defn: The fourth power, or the square of the square. Thus 4x4=16, the
square of 4, and 16x16=256, the biquadrate of 4.

BIQUADRATIC
Bi`quad*rat"ic, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + quadratic: cf. F.
biquadratique.] (Math.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the biquadrate, or fourth power.
Biquadratic equation (Alg.), an equation of the fourth degree, or an
equation in some term of which the unknown quantity is raised to the
fourth power.
 -- Biquadratic root of a number, the square root of the square root
of that number. Thus the square root of 81 is 9, and the square root
of 9 is 3, which is the biquadratic root of 81. Hutton.

BIQUADRATIC
Bi`quad*rat"ic, n. (Math.)
(a) A biquadrate.
(b) A biquadratic equation.

BIQUINTILE
Bi*quin"tile, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + quintile: cf. F. biquintile.]
(Astron.)

Defn: An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other
by twice the fifth part of a great circle -- that is, twice 72
degrees.

BIRADIATE; BIRADIATED
Bi*ra"di*ate, Bi*ra"di*a`ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + radiate.]

Defn: Having two rays; as, a biradiate fin.

BIRAMOUS
Bi*ra"mous, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + ramous.] (Biol.)

Defn: Having, or consisting of, two branches.

BIRCH
Birch, n.; pl. Birches. Etym: [OE. birche, birk, AS. birce, beorc;
akin to Icel. björk, Sw. björk, Dan. birk, D. berk, OHG. piricha,
MHG. birche, birke, G. birke, Russ. bereza, Pol. brzoza, Serv. breza,
Skr. bh. sq. root254. Cf. 1st Birk.]

1. A tree of several species, constituting the genus Betula; as, the
white or common birch (B. alba) (also called silver birch and lady
birch); the dwarf birch (B. glandulosa); the paper or canoe birch (B.
papyracea); the yellow birch (B. lutea); the black or cherry birch
(B. lenta).

2. The wood or timber of the birch.

3. A birch twig or birch twigs, used for flogging.

Note: The twigs of the common European birch (B. alba), being tough
and slender, were formerly much used for rods in schools. They were
also made into brooms.
The threatening twigs of birch. Shak.

4. A birch-bark canoe. Birch of Jamaica, a species (Bursera
gummifera) of turpentine tree.
 -- Birch partridge. (Zoöl.) See Ruffed grouse.
 -- Birch wine, wine made of the spring sap of the birch.
 -- Oil of birch. (a) An oil obtained from the bark of the common
European birch (Betula alba), and used in the preparation of genuine
( and sometimes of the imitation) Russia leather, to which it gives
its peculiar odor. (b) An oil prepared from the black birch (B.
lenta), said to be identical with the oil of wintergreen, for which
it is largely sold.

BIRCH
Birch, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the birch; birchen.

BIRCH
Birch, v. t. [imp & p. p. Birched; p. pr. & vb. n. Birching.]

Defn: To whip with a birch rod or twig; to flog.

BIRCHEN
Birch"en, a.

Defn: Of or relating to birch.
He passed where Newark's stately tower Looks out from Yarrow's
birchen bower. Sir W. Scott.

BIRD
Bird, n. Etym: [OE. brid, bred, bird, young bird, bird, AS. bridd
young bird.

1. Orig., a chicken; the young of a fowl; a young eaglet; a nestling;
and hence, a feathered flying animal (see 2).
That ungentle gull, the cuckoo's bird. Shak.
The brydds [birds] of the aier have nestes. Tyndale (Matt. viii. 20).

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate provided with wings. See
Aves.

3. Specifically, among sportsmen, a game bird.

4. Fig.: A girl; a maiden.
And by my word! the bonny bird In danger shall not tarry. Campbell.
Arabian bird, the phenix.
 -- Bird of Jove, the eagle.
 -- Bird of Juno, the peacock.
 -- Bird louse (Zoöl.), a wingless insect of the group Mallophaga, of
which the genera and species are very numerous and mostly parasitic
upon birds.
 -- Bird mite (Zoöl.), a small mite (genera Dermanyssus, Dermaleichus
and allies) parasitic upon birds. The species are numerous.
 -- Bird of passage, a migratory bird.
 -- Bird spider (Zoöl.), a very large South American spider (Mygale
avicularia). It is said sometimes to capture and kill small birds.
 -- Bird tick (Zoöl.), a dipterous insect parasitic upon birds (genus
Ornithomyia, and allies), usually winged.

BIRD
Bird, v. i.

1. To catch or shoot birds.

2. Hence: To seek for game or plunder; to thieve. [R.] B. Jonson.

BIRDBOLT
Bird"bolt`, n.

Defn: A short blunt arrow for killing birds without piercing them.
Hence: Anything which smites without penetrating. Shak.

BIRD CAGE; BIRDCAGE
Bird" cage", or Bird"cage`, n.

Defn: A cage for confining birds.

BIRDCALL
Bird"call`, n.

1. A sound made in imitation of the note or cry of a bird for the
purpose of decoying the bird or its mate.

2. An instrument of any kind, as a whistle, used in making the sound
of a birdcall.

BIRDCATCHER
Bird"catch`er, n.

Defn: One whose employment it is to catch birds; a fowler.

BIRDCATCHING
Bird"catch`ing, n.

Defn: The art, act, or occupation or catching birds or wild fowls.

BIRD CHERRY
Bird" cher`ry. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrub (Prunus Padus ) found in Northern and Central Europe.
It bears small black cherries.

BIRDER
Bird"er, n.

Defn: A birdcatcher.

BIRD-EYED
Bird"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Quick-sighted; catching a glance as one goes.

BIRD FANCIER
Bird" fan`ci*er.

1. One who takes pleasure in rearing or collecting rare or curious
birds.

2. One who has for sale the various kinds of birds which are kept in
cages.

BIRDIE
Bird"ie, n.

Defn: A pretty or dear little bird; -- a pet name. Tennyson.

BIRDIKIN
Bird"i*kin, n.

Defn: A young bird. Thackeray.

BIRDING
Bird"ing, n.

Defn: Birdcatching or fowling. Shak. Birding piece, a fowling piece.
Shak.

BIRDLET
Bird"let, n.

Defn: A little bird; a nestling.

BIRDLIKE
Bird"like`, a.

Defn: Resembling a bird.

BIRDLIME
Bird"lime`, n. Etym: [Bird + lime viscous substance.]

Defn: An extremely adhesive viscid substance, usually made of the
middle bark of the holly, by boiling, fermenting, and cleansing it.
When a twig is smeared with this substance it will hold small birds
which may light upon it. Hence: Anything which insnares.
Not birdlime or Idean pitch produce A more tenacious mass of clammy
juice. Dryden.

Note: Birdlime is also made from mistletoe, elder, etc.

BIRDLIME
Bird"lime`, v. t. T

Defn: o smear with birdlime; to catch with birdlime; to insnare.
When the heart is thus birdlimed, then it cleaves to everything it
meets with. Coodwin.

BIRDLING
Bird"ling, n.

Defn: A little bird; a nestling.

BIRDMAN
Bird"man, n.

Defn: A fowler or birdcatcher.

BIRD OF PARADISE
Bird" of par"a*dise. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The name of several very beautiful birds of the genus Paradisea
and allied genera, inhabiting New Guinea and the adjacent islands.
The males have brilliant colors, elegant plumes, and often remarkable
tail feathers.

Note: The Great emerald (Paradisea apoda) and the Lesser emerald (P.
minor) furnish many of the plumes used as ornaments by ladies; the
Red is P. rubra or sanguinea; the Golden is Parotia aurea or
sexsetacea; the King is Cincinnurus regius. The name is also applied
to the longer-billed birds of another related group (Epimachinæ) from
the same region. The Twelve-wired (Seleucides alba) is one of these.
See Paradise bird, and Note under Apod.

BIRD PEPPER
Bird" pep`per.

Defn: A species of capsicum (Capsicum baccatum), whose small,
conical, coral-red fruit is among the most piquant of all red
peppers.

BIRD'S-BEAK
Bird's"-beak`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A molding whose section is thought to resemble a beak.

BIRDSEED
Bird"seed`, n.

Defn: Canary seed, hemp, millet or other small seeds used for feeding
caged birds.

BIRD'S-EYE
Bird's"-eye`, a.

1. Seen from above, as if by a flying bird; embraced at a glance;
hence, generalas, a bird's-eye view.

2. Marked with spots resembling bird's eyes; as, bird's-eye diaper;
bird's-eye maple.

BIRD'S-EYE
Bird's"-eye`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant with a small bright flower, as the Adonis or pheasant's
eye, the mealy primrose (Primula farinosa), and species of Veronica,
Geranium, etc.

BIRD'S-EYE MAPLE
Bird's"-eye` ma"ple.

Defn: See under Maple.

BIRD'S-FOOT
Bird's"-foot`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A papilionaceous plant, the Ornithopus, having a curved,
cylindrical pod tipped with a short, clawlike point. Bird's-foot
trefoil. (Bot.) (a) A genus of plants (Lotus) with clawlike pods. L.
corniculatas, with yellow flowers, is very common in Great Britain.
(b) the related plant, Trigonella ornithopodioides, is also European.

BIRD'S-MOUTH
Bird's-mouth`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: An interior acrow's-foot in the United States.

BIRD'S NEST; BIRD'S-NEST
Bird's" nest`, or Bird's-nest, n.

1. The nest in which a bird lays eggs and hatches her young.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: The nest of a small swallow (Collocalia nidifica and several
allied species), of China and the neighboring countries, which is
mixed with soups.

Note: The nests are found in caverns and fissures of cliffs on rocky
coasts, and are composed in part of algæ. They are of the size of a
goose egg, and in substance resemble isinglass. See Illust. under
Edible.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: An orchideous plant with matted roots, of the genus Neottia (N.
nidus-avis.) Bird's-nest pudding, a pudding containing apples whose
cores have been replaces by sugar.
 -- Yellow bird's nest, a plant, the Monotropa hypopitys.

BIRD'S-NESTING
Bird's-nest`ing, n.

Defn: Hunting for, or taking, birds' nests or their contents.

BIRD'S-TONGUE
Bird's"-tongue`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare).

BIRD-WITTED
Bird"-wit`ted, a.

Defn: Flighty; passing rapidly from one subject to another; not
having the faculty of attention. Bacon.

BIRDWOMAN
Bird"wom`an, n.

Defn: An airwoman; an aviatress. [Colloq.]

BIRECTANGULAR
Bi`rec*tan"gu*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + rectangular.]

Defn: Containing or having two right angles; as, a birectangular
spherical triangle.

BIREME
Bi"reme, n. Etym: [L. biremis; bis twice + remus oar: cf. F. birème.]

Defn: An ancient galley or vessel with two banks or tiers of oars.

BIRETTA
Bi*ret"ta, n.

Defn: Same as Berretta.

BIRGANDER
Bir"gan*der, n.

Defn: See Bergander.

BIRK
Birk, n. Etym: [See Birch, n.]

Defn: A birch tree. [Prov. Eng.] "The silver birk." Tennyson.

BIRK
Birk, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European minnow (Leuciscus phoxinus).

BIRKEN
Birk"en, v. t. Etym: [From 1st Birk.]

Defn: To whip with a birch or rod. [Obs.]

BIRKEN
Birk"en, a.

Defn: Birchen; as, birken groves. Burns.

BIRKIE
Bir"kie, n.

Defn: A lively or mettlesome fellow. [Jocular, Scot.] Burns.

BIRL
Birl, v. t. & i.

Defn: To revolve or cause to revolve; to spin. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

BIRL
Birl, v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. byrlian.

Defn: To pour (beer or wine); to ply with drink; to drink; to
carouse. [Obs. or Dial.] Skelton.

BIRLAW
Bir"law, n. Etym: [See By-law.] (Law)

Defn: A law made by husbandmen respecting rural affairs; a rustic or
local law or by-law. [Written also byrlaw, birlie, birley.]

BIROSTRATE; BIROSTRATED
Bi*ros`trate, Bi*ros"tra*ted, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + rostrate.]

Defn: Having a double beak, or two processes resembling beaks.
The capsule is bilocular and birostrated. Ed. Encyc.

BIRR
Birr, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Birred; p. pr. & vb. n. Birring.] Etym:
[Cf. OE. bur, bir, wind, storm wind, fr. Icel. byrr wind. Perh.
imitative.]

Defn: To make, or move with, a whirring noise, as of wheels in
motion.

BIRR
Birr, n.

1. A whirring sound, as of a spinning wheel.

2. A rush or impetus; force.

BIRRUS
Bir"rus, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. birrus a kind of cloak. See Berretta.]

Defn: A coarse kind of thick woolen cloth, worn by the poor in the
Middle Ages; also, a woolen cap or hood worn over the shoulders or
over the head.

BIRSE
Birse, n.

Defn: A bristle or bristles. [Scot.]

BIRT
Birt, n. Etym: [OE. byrte; cf. F. bertonneau. Cf. Bret, Burt.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the turbot kind; the brill. [Written also burt, bret,
or brut.] [Prov. Eng.]

BIRTH
Birth, n. Etym: [OE. burth, birth, AS. beor, gebyrd, fr. beran to
bear, bring forth; akin to D. geboorate, OHG. burt, giburt, G.
geburt, Icel. bur, Skr. bhrti bearing, supporting; cf. Ir. & Gael.
beirthe born, brought forth. Bear, and cf. Berth.]

1. The act or fact of coming into life, or of being born; --
generally applied to human beings; as, the birth of a son.

2. Lineage; extraction; descent; sometimes, high birth; noble
extraction.
Elected without reference to birth, but solely for qualifications.
Prescott.

3. The condition to which a person is born; natural state or
position; inherited disposition or tendency.
A foe by birth to Troy's unhappy name. Dryden.

4. The act of bringing forth; as, she had two children at a birth.
"At her next birth." Milton.

5. That which is born; that which is produced, whether animal or
vegetable.
Poets are far rarer births that kings. B. Jonson.
Others hatch their eggs and tend the birth till it is able to shift
for itself. Addison.

6. Origin; beginning; as, the birth of an empire. New birth (Theol.),
regeneration, or the commencement of a religious life.

Syn.
 -- Parentage; extraction; lineage; race; family.

BIRTH
Birth, n.

Defn: See Berth. [Obs.] De Foe.

BIRTHDAY
Birth"day`, n.

1. The day in which any person is born; day of origin or
commencement.
Those barbarous ages past, succeeded next The birthday of invention.
Cowper.

2. The day of the month in which a person was born, in whatever
succeeding year it may recur; the anniversary of one's birth.
This is my birthday; as this very day Was Cassius born. Shak.

BIRTHDAY
Birth"day`, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the day of birth, or its anniversary; as,
birthday gifts or festivities.

BIRTHDOM
Birth"dom, n. Etym: [Birth + -dom.]

Defn: The land of one's birth; one's inheritance. [R.] Shak.

BIRTHING
Birth"ing, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Anything added to raise the sides of a ship. Bailey.

BIRTHLESS
Birth"less, a.

Defn: Of mean extraction. [R.] Sir W. Scott.

BIRTHMARK
Birth"mark`, n.

Defn: Some peculiar mark or blemish on the body at birth.
Most part of this noble lineage carried upon their body for a natural
birthmark, . . . a snake. Sir T. North.

BIRTHNIGHT
Birth"night`, n.

Defn: The night in which a person is born; the anniversary of that
night in succeeding years.
The angelic song in Bethlehem field, On thy birthnight, that sung
thee Savior born. Milton.

BIRTHPLACE
Birth"place`, n.

Defn: The town, city, or country, where a person is born; place of
origin or birth, in its more general sense. "The birthplace of
valor." Burns.

BIRTHRIGHT
Birth"right`, n.

Defn: Any right, privilege, or possession to which a person is
entitled by birth, such as an estate descendible by law to an heir,
or civil liberty under a free constitution; esp. the rights or
inheritance of the first born.
Lest there be any . . . profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel
of meat sold his birthright. Heb. xii. 16.

BIRTHROOT
Birth"root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An herbaceous plant (Trillium erectum), and its astringent
rootstock, which is said to have medicinal properties.

BIRTHWORT
Birth"wort`, n.

Defn: A genus of herbs and shrubs (Aristolochia), reputed to have
medicinal properties.

BIS
Bis, adv. Etym: [L. bis twice, for duis, fr. root of duo two. See
Two, and cf. Bi-.]

Defn: Twice; -- a word showing that something is, or is to be,
repeated; as a passage of music, or an item in accounts.

BIS; BIS-
Bis*, pref.

Defn: A form of Bi-, sometimes used before s, c, or a vowel.

BISA ANTELOPE
Bi"sa an"te*lope. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Oryx.

BISACCATE
Bi*sac"cate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + saccate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two little bags, sacs, or pouches.

BISCAYAN
Bis*cay"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Biscay in Spain.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Biscay.

BISCOTIN
Bis"co*tin, n. Etym: [F. biscotin. See Biscuit.]

Defn: A confection made of flour, sugar, marmalade, and eggs; a sweet
biscuit.

BISCUIT
Bis"cuit, n. Etym: [F. biscuit (cf. It. biscotto, Sp. bizcocho, Pg.
biscouto), fr. L. bis twice + coctus, p. p. of coquere to cook, bake.
See Cook, and cf. Bisque a kind of porcelain.]

1. A kind of unraised bread, of many varieties, plain, sweet, or
fancy, formed into flat cakes, and bakes hard; as, ship biscuit.
According to military practice, the bread or biscuit of the Romans
was twice prepared in the oven. Gibbon.

2. A small loaf or cake of bread, raised and shortened, or made light
with soda or baking powder. Usually a number are baked in the same
pan, forming a sheet or card.

3. Earthen ware or porcelain which has undergone the first baking,
before it is subjected to the glazing.

4. (Sculp.)

Defn: A species of white, unglazed porcelain, in which vases,
figures, and groups are formed in miniature. Meat biscuit, an
alimentary preparation consisting of matters extracted from meat by
boiling, or of meat ground fine and combined with flour, so as to
form biscuits.

BISCUTATE
Bi*scu"tate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + scutate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling two bucklers placed side by side.

BISE
Bise, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A cold north wind which prevails on the northern coasts of the
Mediterranean and in Switzerland, etc.; -- nearly the same as the
mistral.

BISE
Bise, n. (Paint.)

Defn: See Bice.

BISECT
Bi*sect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bisected; p. pr. & vb. n. Bisecting.]
Etym: [L. bis twice + secare, sectum, to cut.]

1. To cut or divide into two parts.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: To divide into two equal parts.

BISECTION
Bi*sec"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bissection.]

Defn: Division into two parts, esp. two equal parts.

BISECTOR
Bi*sec"tor, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, bisects; esp. (Geom.) a straight line
which bisects an angle.

BISECTRIX
Bi*sec"trix, n.

Defn: The line bisecting the angle between the optic axes of a
biaxial crystal.

BISEGMENT
Bi*seg"ment, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + segment.]

Defn: One of tow equal parts of a line, or other magnitude.

BISEPTATE
Bi*sep"tate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + septate.]

Defn: With two partitions or septa. Gray.

BISERIAL; BISERIATE
Bi*se"ri*al, Bi*se"ri*ate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + serial, seriate.]

Defn: In two rows or series.

BISERRATE
Bi*ser"rate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + serrate.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Doubly serrate, or having the serratures serrate, as in some
leaves.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Serrate on both sides, as some antennæ.

BISETOSE; BISETOUS
Bi*se"tose, Bi*se"tous, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + setose, setous.]

Defn: Having two bristles.

BISEXOUS
Bi*sex"ous, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + sexus sex: cf. F. bissexe.]

Defn: Bisexual. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

BISEXUAL
Bi*sex"u*al, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + sexual.] (Biol.)

Defn: Of both sexes; hermaphrodite; as a flower with stamens and
pistil, or an animal having ovaries and testes.

BISEXUOUS
Bi*sex"u*ous, a.

Defn: Bisexual.

BISEYE
Bi*seye", p. p.

Defn: of Besee. [Obs.] Chaucer. Evil biseye, ill looking. [Obs.]

BISH
Bish, n.

Defn: Same as Bikh.

BISHOP
Bish"op, n. Etym: [OE. bischop, biscop, bisceop, AS. bisceop, biscop,
L. episcopus overseer, superintendent, bishop, fr. Gr. , over +
inspector, fr. root of , , to look to, perh. akin to L. specere to
look at. See Spy, and cf. Episcopal.]

1. A spiritual overseer, superintendent, or director.
Ye were as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto the Shepherd
and Bishop of your souls. 1 Pet. ii. 25.
It is a fact now generally recognized by theologians of all shades of
opinion, that in the language of the New Testament the same officer
in the church is called indifferently "bishop" ( J. B. Lightfoot.

2. In the Roman Catholic, Greek, and Anglican or Protestant Episcopal
churches, one ordained to the highest order of the ministry, superior
to the priesthood, and generally claiming to be a successor of the
Apostles. The bishop is usually the spiritual head or ruler of a
diocese, bishopric, or see. Bishop in partibus [infidelium] (R. C.
Ch.), a bishop of a see which does not actually exist; one who has
the office of bishop, without especial jurisdiction. Shipley.
 -- Titular bishop (R. C. Ch.), a term officially substituted in 1882
for bishop in partibus.
 -- Bench of Bishops. See under Bench.

3. In the Methodist Episcopal and some other churches, one of the
highest church officers or superintendents.

4. A piece used in the game of chess, bearing a representation of a
bishop's miter; -- formerly called archer.

5. A beverage, being a mixture of wine, oranges or lemons, and sugar.
Swift.

6. An old name for a woman's bustle. [U. S.]
If, by her bishop, or her "grace" alone, A genuine lady, or a church,
is known. Saxe.

BISHOP
Bish"op, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bishoped; p. pr. & vb. n. Bishoping.]

Defn: To admit into the church by confirmation; to confirm; hence, to
receive formally to favor.

BISHOP
Bish"op, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bishoped; p. pr. & vb. n. Bishoping.]
Etym: [From the name of the scoundrel who first practiced it.
Youatt.] (Far.)

Defn: To make seem younger, by operating on the teeth; as, to bishop
an old horse or his teeth.

Note: The plan adopted is to cut off all the nippers with a saw to
the proper length, and then with a cutting instrument the operator
scoops out an oval cavity in the corner nippers, which is afterwards
burnt with a hot iron until it is black. J. H. Walsh.

BISHOPDOM
Bish"op*dom, n.

Defn: Jurisdiction of a bishop; episcopate. "Divine right of
bishopdom." Milton.

BISHOPLIKE
Bish"op*like`, a.

Defn: Resembling a bishop; belonging to a bishop. Fulke.

BISHOPLY
Bish"op*ly, a.

Defn: Bishoplike; episcopal. [Obs.]

BISHOPLY
Bish"op*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a bishop. [Obs.]

BISHOPRIC
Bish"op*ric, n. Etym: [AS. bisceoprice; bisceop bishop + rice
dominion. See -ric.]

1. A diocese; the district over which the jurisdiction of a bishop
extends.

2. The office of a spiritual overseer, as of an apostle, bishop, or
presbyter. Acts i. 20.

BISHOP'S CAP
Bish"op's cap`. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Mitella; miterwort. Longfellow.

BISHOP SLEEVE
Bish"op sleeve`.

Defn: A wide sleeve, once worn by women.

BISHOP'S LENGTH
Bish"op's length`.

Defn: A canvas for a portrait measuring 58 by 94 inches. The half
bishop measures 45 of 56.

BISHOP-STOOL
Bish"op-stool`, n.

Defn: A bishop's seat or see.

BISHOP'S-WEED
Bish"op's-weed`, n. (Bot.)
(a) An umbelliferous plant of the genus Ammi.
(b) Goutweed (Ægopodium podagraria).

BISHOP'S-WORT
Bish"op's-wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Wood betony (Stachys betonica); also, the plant called fennel
flower (Nigella Damascena), or devil-in-a-bush.

BISIE
Bis"ie, v. t.

Defn: To busy; to employ. [Obs.]

BISILICATE
Bi*sil"i*cate, n. (Min. Chem.)

Defn: A salt of metasilicic acid; -- so called because the ratio of
the oxygen of the silica to the oxygen of the base is as two to one.
The bisilicates include many of the most common and important
minerals.

BISK
Bisk, n. Etym: [F. bisque.]

Defn: Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together.
King.

BISK
Bisk, n. Etym: [F. bisque.] (Tennis)

Defn: See Bisque.

BISKARA BOIL; BISKARA BUTTON
Bis"ka*ra boil`, Bis"ka*ra but"ton . [Named after the town Biskara,
in Algeria.] (Med.)

Defn: Same as Aleppo boil.

BISMARE; BISMER
Bi*smare", Bi*smer", n. Etym: [AS. bismer.]

Defn: Shame; abuse. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BISMER
Bis"mer, n.

1. A rule steelyard. [Scot.]

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The fifteen-spined (Gasterosteus spinachia).

BISMILLAH
Bis*mil"lah, interj. Etym: [Arabic, in the name of God!]

Defn: An adjuration or exclamation common among the Mohammedans.
[Written also Bizmillah.]

BISMITE
Bis"mite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Bismuth trioxide, or bismuth ocher.

BISMUTH
Bis"muth, n. Etym: [Ger. bismuth, wismuth: cf. F. bismuth.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the elements; a metal of a reddish white color,
crystallizing in rhombohedrons. It is somewhat harder than lead, and
rather brittle; masses show broad cleavage surfaces when broken
across. It melts at 507º Fahr., being easily fused in the flame of a
candle. It is found in a native state, and as a constituent of some
minerals. Specific gravity 9.8. Atomic weight 207.5. Symbol Bi.

Note: Chemically, bismuth (with arsenic and antimony is intermediate
between the metals and nonmetals; it is used in thermo-electric
piles, and as an alloy with lead and tin in the fusible alloy or
metal. Bismuth is the most diamagnetic substance known. Bismuth
glance, bismuth sulphide; bismuthinite.
 -- Bismuth ocher, a native bismuth oxide; bismite.

BISMUTHAL
Bis"muth*al, a.

Defn: Containing bismuth.

BISMUTHIC
Bis"muth*ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to bismuth; containing bismuth, when this
element has its higher valence; as, bismuthic oxide.

BISMUTHIFEROUS
Bis`muth*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Bismuth + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing bismuth.

BISMUTHINE; BISMUTHINITE
Bis"muth*ine, Bis"muth*in*ite, n.

Defn: Native bismuth sulphide; -- sometimes called bismuthite.

BISMUTHOUS
Bis"muth*ous, a.

Defn: Of, or containing, bismuth, when this element has its lower
valence.

BISMUTHYL
Bis"muth*yl`, n. (Min.)

Defn: Hydrous carbonate of bismuth, an earthy mineral of a dull white
or yellowish color. [Written also bismuthite.]

BISON
Bi"son, n. Etym: [L. bison, Gr. , a wild ox; akin to OHG. wisunt,
wisant, G. wisent, AS. wesend, Icel. visundr: cf. F. bison.] (Zoöl.)
(a) The aurochs or European bison.
(b) The American bison buffalo (Bison Americanus), a large,
gregarious bovine quadruped with shaggy mane and short black horns,
which formerly roamed in herds over most of the temperate portion of
North America, but is now restricted to very limited districts in the
region of the Rocky Mountains, and is rapidly decreasing in numbers.

BISPINOSE
Bi*spi"nose, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + spinose.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Having two spines.

BISQUE
Bisque, n. Etym: [A corruption of biscuit.]

Defn: Unglazed white porcelain.

BISQUE
Bisque, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A point taken by the receiver of odds in the game of tennis;
also, an extra innings allowed to a weaker player in croquet.

BISQUE
Bisque, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A white soup made of crayfish.

BISSELL TRUCK
Bis"sell truck.

Defn: A truck for railroad rolling stock, consisting of two ordinary
axle boxes sliding in guides attached to a triangular frame; --
called also pony truck.

BISSEXTILE
Bis*sex"tile, n. Etym: [L. bissextilis annus, fr. bissextus (bis +
sextus sixth, fr. sex six) the sixth of the calends of March, or
twenty-fourth day of February, which was reckoned twice every fourth
year, by the intercalation of a day.]

Defn: Leap year; every fourth year, in which a day is added to the
month of February on account of the excess of the tropical year (365
d. 5 h. 48 m. 46 s.) above 365 days. But one day added every four
years is equivalent to six hours each year, which is 11 m. 14 s. more
than the excess of the real year. Hence, it is necessary to suppress
the bissextile day at the end of every century which is not divisible
by 400, while it is retained at the end of those which are divisible
by 400.

BISSEXTILE
Bis*sex"tile, a.

Defn: Pertaining to leap year.

BISSON
Bis"son, a. Etym: [OE. bisen, bisne, AS. bisen, prob. for bis; bi by
+ s clear, akin to seón to see; clear when near, hence short-sighted.
See See.]

Defn: Purblind; blinding. [Obs.] "Bisson rheum." Shak.

BISTER; BISTRE
Bis"ter, Bis"tre, n. Etym: [F. bistre a color made of soot; of
unknown origin. Cf., however, LG. biester frowning, dark, ugly.]
(Paint.)

Defn: A dark brown pigment extracted from the soot of wood.

BISTIPULED
Bi*stip"uled, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + stipule.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having two stipules.

BISTORT
Bis"tort, n. Etym: [L. bis + tortus, p. p. of torquere to twist: cf.
F. bistorte.] (Bot.)

Defn: An herbaceous plant of the genus Polygonum, section Bistorta;
snakeweed; adderwort. Its root is used in medicine as an astringent.

BISTOURY
Bis"tou*ry, n.; pl. Bistouries. Etym: [F. bistouri.]

Defn: A surgical instrument consisting of a slender knife, either
straight or curved, generally used by introducing it beneath the part
to be divided, and cutting towards the surface.

BISTRE
Bis"tre, n.

Defn: See Bister.

BISULCATE
Bi*sul"cate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + sulcate.]

1. Having two grooves or furrows.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Cloven; said of a foot or hoof.

BISULCOUS
Bi*sul"cous, a. Etym: [L. bisulcus; bis twice + sulcus furrow.]

Defn: Bisulcate. Sir T. Browne.

BISULPHATE
Bi*sul"phate, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + sulphate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sulphate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is
replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion
of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the
normal sulphates; an acid sulphate.

BISULPHIDE
Bi*sul"phide, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + sulphide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sulphide having two atoms of sulphur in the molecule; a
disulphide, as in iron pyrites, FeS2; -- less frequently called
bisulphuret.

BISULPHITE
Bi*sul"phite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphurous acid in which the base replaces but half
the hydrogen of the acid; an acid sulphite.

BISULPHURET
Bi*sul"phu*ret, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + sulphuret.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Bisulphide.

BIT
Bit, n. Etym: [OE. bitt, bite, AS. bite, bite, fr. bitan to bite. See
Bite, n. & v., and cf. Bit a morsel.]

1. The part of a bridle, usually of iron, which is inserted in the
mouth of a horse, and having appendages to which the reins are
fastened. Shak.
The foamy bridle with the bit of gold. Chaucer.

2. Fig.: Anything which curbs or restrains.

BIT
Bit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Bitting.]

Defn: To put a bridle upon; to put the bit in the mouth of.

BIT
Bit,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Bite.

BIT
Bit, n. Etym: [OE. bite, AS. bita, fr. bitan to bite; akin to D.
beet, G. bissen bit, morsel, Icel. biti. See Bite, v., and cf. Bit
part of a bridle.]

1. A part of anything, such as may be bitten off or taken into the
mouth; a morsel; a bite. Hence: A small piece of anything; a little;
a mite.

2. Somewhat; something, but not very great.
My young companion was a bit of a poet. T. Hook.

Note: This word is used, also, like jot and whit, to express the
smallest degree; as, he is not a bit wiser.

3. A tool for boring, of various forms and sizes, usually turned by
means of a brace or bitstock. See Bitstock.

4. The part of a key which enters the lock and acts upon the bolt and
tumblers. Knight.

5. The cutting iron of a plane. Knight.

6. In the Southern and Southwestern States, a small silver coin (as
the real) formerly current; commonly, one worth about 12 1/2 cents;
also, the sum of 12 1/2 cents. Bit my bit, piecemeal. Pope.

BIT
Bit, 3d sing. pr.

Defn: of Bid, for biddeth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BITAKE
Bi*take", v. t. Etym: [See Betake, Betaught.]

Defn: To commend; to commit. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BITANGENT
Bi*tan"gent, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + tangent.] (Geom.)

Defn: Possessing the property of touching at two points.
 -- n.

Defn: A line that touches a curve in two points.

BITARTRATE
Bi*tar"trate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tartaric acid in which the base replaces but half the
acid hydrogen; an acid tartrate, as cream of tartar.

BITCH
Bitch, n. Etym: [OE. biche, bicche, AS. bicce; cf. Icel. bikkja, G.
betze, peize.]

1. The female of the canine kind, as of the dog, wolf, and fox.

2. An opprobrious name for a woman, especially a lewd woman. Pope.

BITE
Bite, v. t. [imp. Bit; p. p. Bitten, Bit; p. pr. & vb. n. Biting.]
Etym: [OE. biten, AS. bitan; akin to D. bijten, OS. bitan, OHG.
bizan, G. beissen, Goth. beitan, Icel. bita, Sw. bita, Dan. bide, L.
findere to cleave, Skr. bhid to cleave. sq. root87. Cf. Fissure.]

1. To seize with the teeth, so that they enter or nip the thing
seized; to lacerate, crush, or wound with the teeth; as, to bite an
apple; to bite a crust; the dog bit a man.
Such smiling rogues as these, Like rats, oft bite the holy cords
atwain. Shak.

2. To puncture, abrade, or sting with an organ (of some insects) used
in taking food.

3. To cause sharp pain, or smarting, to; to hurt or injure, in a
literal or a figurative sense; as, pepper bites the mouth. "Frosts do
bite the meads." Shak.

4. To cheat; to trick; to take in. [Colloq.] Pope.

5. To take hold of; to hold fast; to adhere to; as, the anchor bites
the ground.
The last screw of the rack having been turned so often that its
purchase crumbled, . . . it turned and turned with nothing to bite.
Dickens.
To bite the dust, To bite the ground, to fall in the agonies of
death; as, he made his enemy bite the dust.
 -- To bite in (Etching), to corrode or eat into metallic plates by
means of an acid.
 -- To bite the thumb at (any one), formerly a mark of contempt,
designed to provoke a quarrel; to defy. "Do you bite your thumb at us
" Shak.
 -- To bite the tongue, to keep silence. Shak.

BITE
Bite, v. i.

1. To seize something forcibly with the teeth; to wound with the
teeth; to have the habit of so doing; as, does the dog bite

2. To cause a smarting sensation; to have a property which causes
such a sensation; to be pungent; as, it bites like pepper or mustard.

3. To cause sharp pain; to produce anguish; to hurt or injure; to
have the property of so doing.
At the last it [wine] biteth like serpent, and stingeth like an
adder. Prov. xxiii. 32.

4. To take a bait into the mouth, as a fish does; hence, to take a
tempting offer.

5. To take or keep a firm hold; as, the anchor bites.

BITE
Bite, n. Etym: [OE. bite, bit, bitt, AS. bite bite, fr. bitan to
bite, akin to Icel. bit, OS. biti, G. biss. See Bite, v., and cf.
Bit.]

1. The act of seizing with the teeth or mouth; the act of wounding or
separating with the teeth or mouth; a seizure with the teeth or
mouth, as of a bait; as, to give anything a hard bite.
I have known a very good fisher angle diligently four or six hours
for a river carp, and not have a bite. Walton.

2. The act of puncturing or abrading with an organ for taking food,
as is done by some insects.

3. The wound made by biting; as, the pain of a dog's or snake's bite;
the bite of a mosquito.

4. A morsel; as much as is taken at once by biting.

5. The hold which the short end of a lever has upon the thing to be
lifted, or the hold which one part of a machine has upon another.

6. A cheat; a trick; a fraud. [Colloq.]
The baser methods of getting money by fraud and bite, by deceiving
and overreaching. Humorist.

7. A sharper; one who cheats. [Slang] Johnson.

8. (Print.)

Defn: A blank on the edge or corner of a page, owing to a portion of
the frisket, or something else, intervening between the type and
paper.

BITER
Bit"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, bites; that which bites often, or is
inclined to bite, as a dog or fish. "Great barkers are no biters."
Camden.

2. One who cheats; a sharper. [Colloq.] Spectator.

BITERNATE
Bi*ter"nate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + ternate.] (Bot.)

Defn: Doubly ternate, as when a petiole has three ternate leaflets.
 -- Bi*ter"nate*ly, adv. Gray.

BITHEISM
Bi"the*ism, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + theism.]

Defn: Belief in the existence of two gods; dualism.

BITING
Bit"ing, a.

Defn: That bites; sharp; cutting; sarcastic; caustic. "A biting
affliction." "A biting jest." Shak.

BITING IN
Bit"ing in". (Etching.)

Defn: The process of corroding or eating into metallic plates, by
means of an acid. See Etch. G. Francis.

BITINGLY
Bit"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a biting manner.

BITLESS
Bit"less, a.

Defn: Not having a bit or bridle.

BITO; BITO TREE
Bi"to, n., Bi"to tree`. [Etym. uncertain.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small scrubby tree (Balanites Ægyptiaca) growing in dry
regions of tropical Africa and Asia.

 The hard yellowish white wood is made into plows in Abyssinia; the
bark is used in Farther India to stupefy fish; the ripe fruit is
edible, when green it is an anthelmintic; the fermented juice is used
as a beverage; the seeds yield a medicinal oil called zachun. The
African name of the tree is hajilij.

BITSTOCK
Bit"stock`, n.

Defn: A stock or handle for holding and rotating a bit; a brace.

BITT
Bitt, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Bitts.

BITT
Bitt, v. t. Etym: [See Bitts.] (Naut.)

Defn: To put round the bitts; as, to bitt the cable, in order to
fasten it or to slacken it gradually, which is called veering away.
Totten.

BITTACLE
Bit"ta*cle, n.

Defn: A binnacle. [Obs.]

BITTEN
Bit"ten, p. p.

Defn: of Bite.

BITTEN
Bit"ten, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Terminating abruptly, as if bitten off; premorse.

BITTER
Bit"ter, n. Etym: [See Bitts.] (Naut.)

Defn: AA turn of the cable which is round the bitts. Bitter end, that
part of a cable which is abaft the bitts, and so within board, when
the ship rides at anchor.

BITTER
Bit"ter, a. Etym: [AS. biter; akin to Goth. baitrs, Icel. bitr, Dan.,
Sw., D., & G. bitter, OS. bittar, fr. root of E. bite. See Bite, v.
t.]

1. Having a peculiar, acrid, biting taste, like that of wormwood or
an infusion of hops; as, a bitter medicine; bitter as aloes.

2. Causing pain or smart; piercing; painful; sharp; severe; as, a
bitter cold day.

3. Causing, or fitted to cause, pain or distress to the mind;
calamitous; poignant.
It is an evil thing and bitter, that thou hast forsaken the Lord thy
God. Jer. ii. 19.

4. Characterized by sharpness, severity, or cruelty; harsh; stern;
virulent; as, bitter reproach.
Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them. Col. iii.
19.

5. Mournful; sad; distressing; painful; pitiable.
The Egyptians . . . made their lives bitter with hard bondage. Ex. i.
14.
Bitter apple, Bitter cucumber, Bitter gourd. (Bot.) See Colocynth.
 -- Bitter cress (Bot.), a plant of the genus Cardamine, esp. C.
amara.
 -- Bitter earth (Min.), tale earth; calcined magnesia.
 -- Bitter principles (Chem.), a class of substances, extracted from
vegetable products, having strong bitter taste but with no sharply
defined chemical characteristics.
 -- Bitter salt, Epsom salts;; magnesium sulphate.
 -- Bitter vetch (Bot.), a name given to two European leguminous
herbs, Vicia Orobus and Ervum Ervilia.
 -- To the bitter end, to the last extremity, however calamitous.

Syn.
 -- Acrid; sharp; harsh; pungent; stinging; cutting; severe;
acrimonious.

BITTER
Bit"ter, n.

Defn: Any substance that is bitter. See Bitters.

BITTER
Bit"ter, v. t.

Defn: To make bitter. Wolcott.

BITTERBUMP
Bit"ter*bump`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: the butterbump or bittern.

BITTERFUL
Bit"ter*ful, a.

Defn: Full of bitterness. [Obs.]

BITTERING
Bit"ter*ing, n.

Defn: A bitter compound used in adulterating beer; bittern.

BITTERISH
Bit"ter*ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat bitter. Goldsmith.

BITTERLING
Bit"ter*ling, n. Etym: [G.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A roachlike European fish (Rhodima amarus).

BITTERLY
Bit"ter*ly, adv.

Defn: In a bitter manner.

BITTERN
Bit"tern, n. Etym: [OE. bitoure, betore, bitter, fr. F. butor; of
unknown origin.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A wading bird of the genus Botaurus, allied to the herons, of
various species.

Note: The common European bittern is Botaurus stellaris. It makes,
during the brooding season, a noise called by Dryden bumping, and by
Goldsmith booming. The American bittern is B. lentiginosus, and is
also called stake-driver and meadow hen. See Stake-driver.

Note: The name is applied to other related birds, as the least
bittern (Ardetta exilis), and the sun bittern.

BITTERN
Bit"tern, n. Etym: [From Bitter, a.]

1. The brine which remains in salt works after the salt is concreted,
having a bitter taste from the chloride of magnesium which it
contains.

2. A very bitter compound of quassia, cocculus Indicus, etc., used by
fraudulent brewers in adulterating beer. Cooley.

BITTERNESS
Bit"ter*ness, n. Etym: [AS. biternys; biter better + -nys = -ness.]

1. The quality or state of being bitter, sharp, or acrid, in either a
literal or figurative sense; implacableness; resentfulness; severity;
keenness of reproach or sarcasm; deep distress, grief, or vexation of
mind.
The lip that curls with bitterness. Percival.
I will complain in the bitterness of my soul. Job vii. 11.

2. A state of extreme impiety or enmity to God.
Thou art in the gall of bitterness, and in the bond of iniquity. Acts
viii. 23.

3. Dangerous error, or schism, tending to draw persons to apostasy.
Looking diligently, . . . lest any root of bitterness springing up
trouble you. Heb. xii. 15.

BITTERNUT
Bit"ter*nut", n. (Bot.)

Defn: The swamp hickory (Carya amara). Its thin-shelled nuts are
bitter.

BITTERROOT
Bit"ter*root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Lewisia rediviva) allied to the purslane, but with
fleshy, farinaceous roots, growing in the mountains of Idaho,
Montana, etc. It gives the name to the Bitter Root mountains and
river. The Indians call both the plant and the river Spæt'lum.

BITTERS
Bit"ters, n. pl.

Defn: A liquor, generally spirituous in which a bitter herb, leaf, or
root is steeped.

BITTER SPAR
Bit"ter spar".

Defn: A common name of dolomite; -- so called because it contains
magnesia, the soluble salts of which are bitter. See Dolomite.

BITTERSWEET
Bit"ter*sweet`, a.

Defn: Sweet and then bitter or bitter and then sweet; esp. sweet with
a bitter after taste; hence (Fig.), pleasant but painful.

BITTERSWEET
Bit"ter*sweet`, n.

1. Anything which is bittersweet.

2. A kind of apple so called. Gower.

3. (Bot.)
(a) A climbing shrub, with oval coral-red berries (Solanum
dulcamara); woody nightshade. The whole plant is poisonous, and has a
taste at first sweetish and then bitter. The branches are the
officinal dulcamara.
(b) An American woody climber (Celastrus scandens), whose yellow
capsules open late in autumn, and disclose the red aril which covers
the seeds; -- also called Roxbury waxwork.

BITTERWEED
Bit"ter*weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of Ambrosia (A. artemisiæfolia); Roman worm wood.
Gray.

BITTERWOOD
Bit"ter*wood`, n.

Defn: A West Indian tree (Picræna excelsa) from the wood of which the
bitter drug Jamaica quassia is obtained.

BITTERWORT
Bit"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The yellow gentian (Gentiana lutea), which has a very bitter
taste.

BITTOCK
Bit"tock, n. Etym: [See Bit a morsel.]

Defn: A small bit of anything, of indefinite size or quantity; a
short distance. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

BITTOR; BITTOUR
Bit"tor Bit"tour, n. Etym: [See Bittern] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The bittern. Dryden.

BITTS
Bitts, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. F. bitte, Icel. biti, a beam. (Naut.)

Defn: A frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the fore
part of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides at
anchor, or in warping. Other bitts are used for belaying (belaying
bitts), for sustaining the windlass (carrick bitts, winch bitts, or
windlass bitts), to hold the pawls of the windlass (pawl bitts) etc.

BITUME
Bi*tume", n. Etym: [F. See Bitumen.]

Defn: Bitumen. [Poetic] May.

BITUMED
Bi*tumed", a.

Defn: Smeared with bitumen. [R.] "The hatches caulked and bitumed."
Shak.

BITUMEN
Bi*tu"men, n. Etym: [L. bitumen: cf. F. bitume. Cf. Béton.]

1. Mineral pitch; a black, tarry substance, burning with a bright
flame; Jew's pitch. It occurs as an abundant natural product in many
places, as on the shores of the Dead and Caspian Seas. It is used in
cements, in the construction of pavements, etc. See Asphalt.

2. By extension, any one of the natural hydrocarbons, including the
hard, solid, brittle varieties called asphalt, the semisolid maltha
and mineral tars, the oily petroleums, and even the light, volatile
naphthas.

BITUMEN PROCESS
Bi*tu"men proc"ess. (Photog.)

Defn: Any process in which  advantage is taken of the fact that
prepared bitumen is rendered insoluble by exposure to light, as in
photolithography.

BITUMINATE
Bi*tu"mi*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bituminated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bituminating.] Etym: [L. bituminatus, p. p. of bituminare to
bituminate. See Bitumen.]

Defn: To treat or impregnate with bitumen; to cement with bitumen.
"Bituminated walls of Babylon." Feltham.

BITUMINIFEROUS
Bi*tu`mi*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Bitumen + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing bitumen. Kirwan.

BITUMINIZATION
Bi*tu`mi*ni*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bituminisation.]

Defn: The process of bituminizing. Mantell.

BITUMINIZE
Bi*tu"mi*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bituminized (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Bituminizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. bituminiser.]

Defn: To prepare, treat, impregnate, or coat with bitumen.

BITUMINOUS
Bi*tu"mi*nous, a. Etym: [L. bituminosus: cf. F. bitumineux.]

Defn: Having the qualities of bitumen; compounded with bitumen;
containing bitumen.
Near that bituminous lake where Sodom flamed. Milton.
Bituminous coal, a kind of coal which yields, when heated, a
considerable amount of volatile bituminous matter. It burns with a
yellow smoky flame.
 -- Bituminous limestone, a mineral of a brown or black color,
emitting an unpleasant smell when rubbed. That of Dalmatia is so
charged with bitumen that it may be cut like soap.
 -- Bituminous shale, an argillaceous shale impregnated with bitumen,
often accompanying coal.

BIURET
Bi"u*ret, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + urea.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, C2O2N3H5, formed
by heating urea. It is intermediate between urea and cyanuric acid.

BIVALENCY
Biv"a*len*cy, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The quality of being bivalent.

BIVALENT
Biv"a*lent, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + valens, p. pr. See Valence.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Equivalent in combining or displacing power to two atoms of
hydrogen; dyad.

BIVALVE
Bi"valve, n. Etym: [F. bivalve; bi- (L. bis) + valve valve.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A mollusk having a shell consisting of two lateral plates or
valves joined together by an elastic ligament at the hinge, which is
usually strengthened by prominences called teeth. The shell is closed
by the contraction of two transverse muscles attached to the inner
surface, as in the clam, -- or by one, as in the oyster. See
Mollusca.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A pericarp in which the seed case opens or splits into two
parts or valves.

BIVALVE
Bi"valve, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + valve.] (Zoöl. & Bot.)

Defn: Having two shells or valves which open and shut, as the oyster
and certain seed vessels.

BIVALVED
Bi"valved, a.

Defn: Having two valves, as the oyster and some seed pods; bivalve.

BIVALVOUS
Bi*val"vous, a.

Defn: Bivalvular.

BIVALVULAR
Bi*val"vu*lar, a.

Defn: Having two valves.

BIVAULTED
Bi*vault"ed, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + vault.]

Defn: Having two vaults or arches.

BIVECTOR
Bi*vec"tor, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + vector.] (Math.)

Defn: A term made up of the two parts

BIVENTRAL
Bi*ven"tral, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + ventral.]

Defn: (Anat.) Having two bellies or protuberances; as, a biventral,
or digastric, muscle, or the biventral lobe of the cerebellum.

BIVIAL
Biv"i*al, a.

Defn: Of or relating to the bivium.

BIVIOUS
Biv"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. bivius; bis twice + via way.]

Defn: Having, or leading, two ways.
Bivious theorems and Janus-faced doctrines. Sir T. Browne.

BIVIUM
Biv"i*um, n. Etym: [L., a place with two ways. See Bivious.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One side of an echinoderm, including a pair of ambulacra, in
distinction from the opposite side (trivium), which includes three
ambulacra.

BIVOUAC
Biv"ouac, n. Etym: [F. bivouac, bivac, prab. fr. G. beiwache, or
beiwacht; bei by, near + wachen to watch, wache watch, guard. See By,
and Watch.] (Mil.)
(a) The watch of a whole army by night, when in danger of surprise or
attack.
(b) An encampment for the night without tents or covering.

BIVOUAC
Biv"ouac, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bivouacked (p. pr. & vb. n.
Bivouacking.] (Mil.)
(a) To watch at night or be on guard, as a whole army.
(b) To encamp for the night without tents or covering.

BIWEEKLY
Bi"week`ly, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + weekly.]

Defn: Occurring or appearing once every two weeks; fortnightly.
 -- n.

Defn: A publication issued every two weeks.
 -- Bi"week"ly, adv.

BIWREYE
Bi*wreye", v. t.

Defn: To bewray; to reveal. [Obs.]

BIZANTINE
Biz"an*tine.

Defn: See Byzantine.

BIZARRE
Bi*zarre", a. Etym: [F. bizarre odd, fr. Sp. bizarro gallant, brave,
liberal, prob. of Basque origin; cf. Basque bizarra beard, whence the
meaning manly, brave.]

Defn: Odd in manner or appearance; fantastic; whimsical; extravagant;
grotesque. C. Kingsley.

BIZET
Bi*zet", n. Etym: [Cf. Bezel.]

Defn: The upper faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond, which
projects from the setting and occupies the zone between the girdle
and the table. See Brilliant, n.

BLAB
Blab, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blabbed (p. pr. & vb. n. Blabbing.] Etym:
[Cf. OE. blaberen, or Dan. blabbre, G. plappern, Gael. blabaran a
stammerer; prob. of imitative origin. Cf. also Blubber, v.]

Defn: To utter or tell unnecessarily, or in a thoughtless manner; to
publish (secrets or trifles) without reserve or discretion. Udall.
And yonder a vile physician blabbing The case of his patient.
Tennyson.

BLAB
Blab, v. i.

Defn: To talk thoughtlessly or without discretion; to tattle; to tell
tales.
She must burst or blab. Dryden.

BLAB
Blab, n. Etym: [OE. blabbe.]

Defn: One who blabs; a babbler; a telltale. "Avoided as a blab."
Milton.
For who will open himself to a blab or a babbler. Bacon.

BLABBER
Blab"ber, n.

Defn: A tattler; a telltale.

BLACK
Black, a. Etym: [OE. blak, AS. blæc; akin to Icel. blakkr dark,
swarthy, Sw. bläck ink, Dan. blæk, OHG. blach, LG. & D. blaken to
burn with a black smoke. Not akin to AS. blac, E. bleak pallid.

1. Destitute of light, or incapable of reflecting it; of the color of
soot or coal; of the darkest or a very dark color, the opposite of
white; characterized by such a color; as, black cloth; black hair or
eyes.
O night, with hue so black! Shak.

2. In a less literal sense: Enveloped or shrouded in darkness; very
dark or gloomy; as, a black night; the heavens black with clouds.
I spy a black, suspicious, threatening cloud. Shak.

3. Fig.: Dismal, gloomy, or forbidding, like darkness; destitute of
moral light or goodness; atrociously wicked; cruel; mournful;
calamitous; horrible. "This day's black fate." "Black villainy."
"Arise, black vengeance." "Black day." "Black despair." Shak.

4. Expressing menace, or discontent; threatening; sullen; foreboding;
as, to regard one with black looks.

Note: Black is often used in self-explaining compound words; as,
black-eyed, black-faced, black-haired, black-visaged. Black act, the
English statute 9 George I, which makes it a felony to appear armed
in any park or warren, etc., or to hunt or steal deer, etc., with the
face blackened or disguised. Subsequent acts inflicting heavy
penalties for malicious injuries to cattle and machinery have been
called black acts.
 -- Black angel (Zoöl.), a fish of the West Indies and Florida
(Holacanthus tricolor), with the head and tail yellow, and the middle
of the body black.
 -- Black antimony (Chem.), the black sulphide of antimony, Sb2S3,
used in pyrotechnics, etc.
 -- Black bear (Zoöl.), the common American bear (Ursus Americanus).
 -- Black beast. See Bête noire.
 -- Black beetle (Zoöl.), the common large cockroach (Blatta
orientalis).
 -- Black and blue, the dark color of a bruise in the flesh, which is
accompanied with a mixture of blue. "To pinch the slatterns black and
blue." Hudibras.
 -- Black bonnet (Zoöl.), the black-headed bunting (Embriza
Schoeniclus) of Europe.
 -- Black canker, a disease in turnips and other crops, produced by a
species of caterpillar.
 -- Black cat (Zoöl.), the fisher, a quadruped of North America
allied to the sable, but larger. See Fisher.
 -- Black cattle, any bovine cattle reared for slaughter, in
distinction from dairy cattle. [Eng.] -- Black cherry. See under
Cherry.
 -- Black cockatoo (Zoöl.), the palm cockatoo. See Cockatoo.
 -- Black copper. Same as Melaconite.
 -- Black currant. (Bot.) See Currant.
 -- Black diamond. (Min.) See Carbonado.
 -- Black draught (Med.), a cathartic medicine, composed of senna and
magnesia.
 -- Black drop (Med.), vinegar of opium; a narcotic preparation
consisting essentially of a solution of opium in vinegar.
 -- Black earth, mold; earth of a dark color. Woodward.
 -- Black flag, the flag of a pirate, often bearing in white a skull
and crossbones; a signal of defiance.
 -- Black flea (Zoöl.), a flea beetle (Haltica nemorum) injurious to
turnips.
 -- Black flux, a mixture of carbonate of potash and charcoal,
obtained by deflagrating tartar with half its weight of niter. Brande
& C.
 -- Black fly. (Zoöl.) (a) In the United States, a small, venomous,
two-winged fly of the genus Simulium of several species, exceedingly
abundant and troublesome in the northern forests. The larvæ are
aquatic. (b) A black plant louse, as the bean aphis (A. fabæ).
 -- Black Forest Etym: [a translation of G. Schwarzwald], a forest in
Baden and Würtemburg, in Germany; a part of the ancient Hercynian
forest.
 -- Black game, or Black grouse. (Zoöl.) See Blackcock, Grouse, and
Heath grouse.
 -- Black grass (Bot.), a grasslike rush of the species Juncus
Gerardi, growing on salt marshes, and making good hay.
 -- Black gum (Bot.), an American tree, the tupelo or pepperidge. See
Tupelo.
 -- Black Hamburg (grape) (Bot.), a sweet and juicy variety of dark
purple or "black" grape.
 -- Black horse (Zoöl.), a fish of the Mississippi valley (Cycleptus
elongatus), of the sucker family; the Missouri sucker.
 -- Black lemur (Zoöl.), the Lemurniger of Madagascar; the acoumbo of
the natives.
 -- Black list, a list of persons who are for some reason thought
deserving of censure or punishment; -- esp. a list of persons
stigmatized as insolvent or untrustworthy, made for the protection of
tradesmen or employers. See Blacklist, v. t.
 -- Black manganese (Chem.), the black oxide of manganese, MnO2.
 -- Black Maria, the close wagon in which prisoners are carried to or
from jail.
 -- Black martin (Zoöl.), the chimney swift. See Swift.
 -- Black moss (Bot.), the common so-called long moss of the southern
United States. See Tillandsia.
 -- Black oak. See under Oak.
 -- Black ocher. See Wad.
 -- Black pigment, a very fine, light carbonaceous substance, or
lampblack, prepared chiefly for the manufacture of printers' ink. It
is obtained by burning common coal tar.
 -- Black plate, sheet iron before it is tinned. Knight.
 -- Black quarter, malignant anthrax with engorgement of a shoulder
or quarter, etc., as of an ox.
 -- Black rat (Zoöl.), one of the species of rats (Mus rattus),
commonly infesting houses.
 -- Black rent. See Blackmail, n., 3.
 -- Black rust, a disease of wheat, in which a black, moist matter is
deposited in the fissures of the grain.
 -- Black sheep, one in a family or company who is unlike the rest,
and makes trouble.
 -- Black silver. (Min.) See under Silver.
 -- Black and tan, black mixed or spotted with tan color or reddish
brown; -- used in describing certain breeds of dogs.
 -- Black tea. See under Tea.
 -- Black tin (Mining), tin ore (cassiterite), when dressed, stamped
and washed, ready for smelting. It is in the form of a black powder,
like fine sand. Knight.
 -- Black walnut. See under Walnut.
 -- Black warrior (Zoöl.), an American hawk (Buteo Harlani).

Syn.
 -- Dark; murky; pitchy; inky; somber; dusky; gloomy; swart;
Cimmerian; ebon; atrocious.

BLACK
Black, adv.

Defn: Sullenly; threateningly; maliciously; so as to produce
blackness.

BLACK
Black, n.

1. That which is destitute of light or whiteness; the darkest color,
or rather a destitution of all color; as, a cloth has a good black.
Black is the badge of hell, The hue of dungeons, and the suit of
night. Shak.

2. A black pigment or dye.

3. A negro; a person whose skin is of a black color, or shaded with
black; esp. a member or descendant of certain African races.

4. A black garment or dress; as, she wears black; pl. (Obs.)

Defn: Mourning garments of a black color; funereal drapery.
Friends weeping, and blacks, and obsequies, and the like show death
terrible. Bacon.
That was the full time they used to wear blacks for the death of
their fathers. Sir T. North.

5. The part of a thing which is distinguished from the rest by being
black.
The black or sight of the eye. Sir K. Digby.

6. A stain; a spot; a smooch.
Defiling her white lawn of chastity with ugly blacks of lust. Rowley.
Black and white, writing or print; as, I must have that statement in
black and white.
 -- Blue black, a pigment of a blue black color.
 -- Ivory black, a fine kind of animal charcoal prepared by calcining
ivory or bones. When ground it is the chief ingredient of the ink
used in copperplate printing.
 -- Berlin black. See under Berlin.

BLACK
Black, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blacked ; p. pr. & vb. n. Blacking.] Etym:
[See Black, a., and cf. Blacken.]

1. To make black; to blacken; to soil; to sully.
They have their teeth blacked, both men and women, for they say a dog
hath his teeth white, therefore they will black theirs. Hakluyt.
Sins which black thy soul. J. Fletcher.

2. To make black and shining, as boots or a stove, by applying
blacking and then polishing with a brush.

BLACKAMOOR
Black"a*moor, n. Etym: [Black + Moor.]

Defn: A negro or negress. Shak.

BLACK ART
Black" art`.

Defn: The art practiced by conjurers and witches; necromancy;
conjuration; magic.

Note: This name was given in the Middle Ages to necromancy, under the
idea that the latter term was derived from niger black, instead of
nekro`s, a dead person, and mantei`a, divination. Wright.

BLACK-A-VISED
Black"-a-vised`, a.

Defn: Dark-visaged; swart.

BLACKBALL
Black"ball`, n.

1. A composition for blacking shoes, boots, etc.; also, one for
taking impressions of engraved work.

2. A ball of black color, esp. one used as a negative in voting; --
in this sense usually two words.

BLACKBALL
Black"ball`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blackballed (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Blackballing.]

1. To vote against, by putting a black ball into a ballot box; to
reject or exclude, as by voting against with black balls; to
ostracize.
He was blackballed at two clubs in succession. Thackeray.

2. To blacken (leather, shoes, etc.) with blacking.

BLACKBAND
Black"band`, n. (Min.)

Defn: An earthy carbonate of iron containing considerable
carbonaceous matter; -- valuable as an iron ore.

BLACK BASS
Black" bass`. (Zoöl.)

1. An edible, fresh-water fish of the United States, of the genus
Micropterus. the small-mouthed kind is M. dolomiei; the largemouthed
is M. salmoides.

2. The sea bass. See Blackfish, 3.

BLACKBERRY
Black"ber*ry, n. Etym: [OE. blakberye, AS. blæcerie; blæc black +
berie berry.]

Defn: The fruit of several species of bramble (Rubus); also, the
plant itself. Rubus fruticosus is the blackberry of England; R.
villosus and R. Canadensis are the high blackberry and low blackberry
of the United States. There are also other kinds.

BLACKBIRD
Black"bird, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: In England, a species of thrush (Turdus merula), a singing bird
with a fin note; the merle. In America the name is given to several
birds, as the Quiscalus versicolor, or crow blackbird; the Agelæus
phoeniceus, or red-winged blackbird; the cowbird; the rusty grackle,
etc. See Redwing.

BLACKBIRDER
Black"bird*er, n.

Defn: A slave ship; a slaver. [Colloq.]  F. T. Bullen.

BLACKBIRDING
Black"bird*ing, n.

1. The kidnaping of negroes or Polynesians to be sold as slaves.

2.  The act or practice of collecting natives of the islands near
Queensland for service on the Queensland sugar plantations.
[Australia]

BLACKBOARD
Black"board`, n.

Defn: A broad board painted black, or any black surface on which
writing, drawing, or the working of mathematical problems can be done
with chalk or crayons. It is much used in schools.

BLACK BOOK
Black" book`.

1. One of several books of a political character, published at
different times and for different purposes; -- so called either from
the color of the binding, or from the character of the contents.

2. A book compiled in the twelfth century, containing a description
of the court of exchequer of England, an official statement of the
revenues of the crown, etc.

3. A book containing details of the enormities practiced in the
English monasteries and religious houses, compiled by order of their
visitors under Henry VIII., to hasten their dissolution.

4. A book of admiralty law, of the highest authority, compiled in the
reign of Edw. III. Bouvier. Wharton.

5. A book kept for the purpose of registering the names of persons
liable to censure or punishment, as in the English universities, or
the English armies.

6. Any book which treats of necromancy.

BLACK-BROWED
Black"-browed`, a.

Defn: Having black eyebrows. Hence: Gloomy; dismal; threatening;
forbidding. Shak. Dryden.

BLACKBURNIAN WARBLER
Black*bur"ni*an war"bler. Etym: [Named from Mrs. Blackburn, an
English lady.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A beautiful warbler of the United States (Dendroica
Blackburniæ). The male is strongly marked with orange, yellow, and
black on the head and neck, and has an orange-yellow breast.

BLACKCAP
Black"cap`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) A small European song bird (Sylvia atricapilla), with a black
crown; the mock nightingale.
(b) An American titmouse (Parus atricapillus); the chickadee.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: An apple roasted till black, to be served in a dish of boiled
custard.

3. The black raspberry.

BLACKCOAT
Black"coat`, n.

Defn: A clergyman; -- familiarly so called, as a soldier is sometimes
called a redcoat or a bluecoat.

BLACKCOCK
Black"cock`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The male of the European black grouse (Tetrao tetrix, Linn.); -
- so called by sportsmen. The female is called gray hen. See Heath
grouse.

BLACK DEATH
Black" death`.

Defn: A pestilence which ravaged Europe and Asia in the fourteenth
century.

BLACKEN
Black"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blackened; p. pr. & vb. n. Blackening.]
Etym: [See Black, a., and cf. Black, v. t. ]

1. To make or render black.
While the long funerals blacken all the way. Pope

2. To make dark; to darken; to cloud. "Blackened the whole heavens."
South.

3. To defame; to sully, as reputation; to make infamous; as, vice
blackens the character.

Syn.
 -- To denigrate; defame; vilify; slander; calumniate; traduce;
malign; asperse.

BLACKEN
Black"en, v. i.

Defn: To grow black or dark.

BLACKENER
Black"en*er, n.

Defn: One who blackens.

BLACK-EYED
Black"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having black eyes. Dryden.

BLACK-EYED SUSAN
Black"-eyed` Su"san. (Bot.)
 (a) The coneflower, or yellow daisy (Rudbeckia hirta).
 (b) The bladder ketmie.

BLACK-FACED
Black"-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a black, dark, or gloomy face or aspect.

BLACKFEET
Black"feet`, n. pl. (Ethn.)

Defn: A tribe of North American Indians formerly inhabiting the
country from the upper Missouri River to the Saskatchewan, but now
much reduced in numbers.

BLACKFIN
Black"fin`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Bluefin.

BLACKFISH
Black"fish, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small kind of whale, of the genus Globicephalus, of several
species. The most common is G. melas. Also sometimes applied to other
whales of larger size.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The tautog of New England (Tautoga).

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black sea bass (Centropristis atrarius) of the Atlantic
coast. It is excellent food fish; -- locally called also black Harry.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of southern Europe (Centrolophus pompilus) of the
Mackerel family.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The female salmon in the spawning season.

Note: The name is locally applied to other fishes.

BLACK FLAGS
Black Flags.

Defn: An organization composed originally of Chinese rebels that had
been driven into Tonkin by the suppression of the Taiping rebellion,
but later increased by bands of pirates and adventurers. It took a
prominent part in fighting the French during their hostilities with
Anam, 1873-85.

BLACKFOOT
Black"foot`, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Blackfeet; as, a Blackfoot Indian.
 -- n.

Defn: A Blackfoot Indian.

BLACK FRIAR
Black" fri`ar. (Eccl.)

Defn: A friar of the Dominican order; -- called also predicant and
preaching friar; in France, Jacobin. Also, sometimes, a Benedictine.

BLACK FRIDAY
Black Friday.

Defn: Any Friday on which a public disaster has occurred, as: In
England, December 6, 1745, when the news of the landing of the
Pretender reached London, or May 11, 1866,  when a financial panic
commenced. In the United States, September 24, 1869, and September
18, 1873, on which financial panics began.

BLACKGUARD
Black"guard, n. Etym: [Black + guard.]

1. The scullions and lower menials of a court, or of a nobleman's
household, who, in a removal from one residence to another, had
charge of the kitchen utensils, and being smutted by them, were
jocularly called the "black guard"; also, the servants and hangers-on
of an army. [Obs.]
A lousy slave, that . . . rode with the black guard in the duke's
carriage, 'mongst spits and dripping pans. Webster (1612).

2. The criminals and vagrants or vagabonds of a town or community,
collectively. [Obs.]

3. A person of stained or low character, esp. one who uses scurrilous
language, or treats others with foul abuse; a scoundrel; a rough.
A man whose manners and sentiments are decidedly below those of his
class deserves to be called a blackguard. Macaulay.

4. A vagrant; a bootblack; a gamin. [Obs.]

BLACKGUARD
Black"guard`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blackguarded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Blackguarding.]

Defn: To revile or abuse in scurrilous language. Southey.

BLACKGUARD
Black"guard, a.

Defn: Scurrilous; abusive; low; worthless; vicious; as, blackguard
language.

BLACKGUARDISM
Black"guard*ism, n.

Defn: The conduct or language of a blackguard; rufflanism.

BLACKGUARDLY
Black"guard*ly, adv. & a.

Defn: In the manner of or resembling a blackguard; abusive;
scurrilous; ruffianly.

BLACK HAMBURG
Black Ham"burg.

Defn: A sweet and juicy variety of European grape, of a dark purplish
black color, much grown under glass in northern latitudes.

BLACK HAND
Black Hand. [A trans. of Sp. mano negra.]

1.

Defn: A Spanish anarchistic society, many of the members of which
were imprisoned in 1883.

2.  A lawless or blackmailing secret society, esp. among Italians.
[U. S.]

BLACKHEAD
Black"head`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The scaup duck.

BLACKHEART
Black"heart`, n.

Defn: A heart-shaped cherry with a very dark-colored skin.

BLACK-HEARTED
Black"-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Having a wicked, malignant disposition; morally bad.

BLACK HOLE
Black" hole`.

Defn: A dungeon or dark cell in a prison; a military lock-up or
guardroom; -- now commonly with allusion to the cell (the Black Hole)
in a fort at Calcutta, into which 146 English prisoners were thrust
by the nabob Suraja Dowla on the night of June 20, 17656, and in
which 123 of the prisoners died before morning from lack of air.
A discipline of unlimited autocracy, upheld by rods, and ferules, and
the black hole. H. Spencer.

BLACKING
Black"ing, n.

1. Any preparation for making things black; esp. one for giving a
black luster to boots and shoes, or to stoves.

2. The act or process of making black.

BLACKISH
Black"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat black.

BLACK-JACK
Black"-jack`, n.

1. (Min.)

Defn: A name given by English miners to sphalerite, or zinc blende; -
- called also false galena. See Blende.

2. Caramel or burnt sugar, used to color wines, spirits, ground
coffee, etc.

3. A large leather vessel for beer, etc. [Obs.]

4. (Bot.)

Defn: The Quercus nigra, or barren oak.

5. The ensign of a pirate.

BLACK LEAD
Black` lead".

Defn: Plumbago; graphite.It leaves a blackish mark somewhat like
lead. See Graphite.

BLACKLEAD
Black`lead", v. t.

Defn: To coat or to polish with black lead.

BLACKLEG
Black"leg`, n.

1. A notorious gambler. [Colloq.]

2. A disease among calves and sheep, characterized by a settling of
gelatinous matter in the legs, and sometimes in the neck. [Eng.]

BLACK LETTER
Black" let`ter.

Defn: The old English or Gothic letter, in which the Early English
manuscripts were written, and the first English books were printed.
It was conspicuous for its blackness. See Type.

BLACK-LETTER
Black"-let`ter, a.

1. Written or printed in black letter; as, a black-letter manuscript
or book.

2. Given to the study of books in black letter; that is, of old
books; out of date.
Kemble, a black-letter man! J. Boaden.

3. Of or pertaining to the days in the calendar not marked with red
letters as saints' days. Hence: Unlucky; inauspicious.

BLACKLIST
Black"list`, v. t.

Defn: To put in a black list as deserving of suspicion, censure, or
punishment; esp. to put in a list of persons stigmatized as insolvent
or untrustworthy, -- as tradesmen and employers do for mutual
protection; as, to blacklist a workman who has been discharged. See
Black list, under Black, a.
If you blacklist us, we will boycott you. John Swinton.

BLACKLY
Black"ly, adv.

Defn: In a black manner; darkly, in color; gloomily; threateningly;
atrociously. "Deeds so blackly grim and horrid." Feltham.

BLACKMAIL
Black"mail`, n. Etym: [Black + mail a piece of money.]

1. A certain rate of money, corn, cattle, or other thing, anciently
paid, in the north of England and south of Scotland, to certain men
who were allied to robbers, or moss troopers, to be by them protected
from pillage. Sir W. Scott.

2. Payment of money exacted by means of intimidation; also, extortion
of money from a person by threats of public accusation, exposure, or
censure.

3. (Eng. Law)

Defn: Black rent, or rent paid in corn, flesh, or the lowest coin, a
opposed to "white rent", which paid in silver. To levy blackmail, to
extort money by threats, as of injury to one's reputation.

BLACKMAIL
Black"mail`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blackmailed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Blackmailing.]

Defn: To extort money from by exciting fears of injury other than
bodily harm, as injury to reputation, distress of mind, etc.; as, to
blackmail a merchant by threatening to expose an alleged fraud. [U.
S.]

BLACKMAILER
Black"mail`er, n.

Defn: One who extorts, or endeavors to extort, money, by black
mailing.

BLACKMAILING
Black"mail`ing, n.

Defn: The act or practice of extorting money by exciting fears of
injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation.

BLACK MONDAY
Black" Mon`day.

1. Easter Monday, so called from the severity of that day in 1360,
which was so unusual that many of Edward III.'s soldiers, then before
Paris, died from the cold. Stow.
Then it was not for nothing that may nose fell a bleeding on Black
Monday last. Shak.

2. The first Monday after the holidays; -- so called by English
schoolboys. Halliwell.

BLACK MONK
Black" monk`.

Defn: A Benedictine monk.

BLACKMOOR
Black"moor, n.

Defn: See Blackamoor.

BLACK-MOUTHED
Black"-mouthed`, a.

Defn: Using foul or scurrilous language; slanderous.

BLACKNESS
Black"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being black; black color; atrociousness
or enormity in wickedness.
They're darker now than blackness. Donne.

BLACKPOLL
Black"poll`, n. Etym: [Black + poll head.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A warbler of the United States (Dendroica striata).

BLACK PUDDING
Black" pud"ding.

Defn: A kind of sausage made of blood, suet, etc., thickened with
meal.
And fat black puddings, -- proper food, For warriors that delight in
blood. Hudibras.

BLACK ROD
Black" Rod`.
(a) the usher to the Chapter of the Garter, so called from the black
rod which he carries. He is of the king's chamber, and also usher to
the House of Lords. [Eng.]
(b) An usher in the legislature of British colonies. Cowell.
Committed to the custody of the Black Rod. Macaulay.

BLACKROOT
Black"root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Colicroot.

BLACKS
Blacks, n. pl.

1. The name of a kind of in used in copperplate printing, prepared
from the charred husks of the grape, and residue of the wine press.

2. Soot flying in the air. [Eng.]

3. Black garments, etc. See Black, n., 4.

BLACKSALTER
Black"salt`er, n.

Defn: One who,makes crude potash, or black salts.

BLACK SALTS
Black" salts`.

Defn: Crude potash. De Colange.

BLACKSMITH
Black"smith`, n. Etym: [Black (in allusion to the color of the metal)
+ smith. Cf. Whitesmith.]

1. A smith who works in iron with a forge, and makes iron utensils,
horseshoes, etc.
The blacksmith may forge what he pleases. Howell.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish of the Pacific coast (Chromis, or Heliastes,
punctipinnis), of a blackish color.

BLACK SNAKE; BLACKSNAKE
Black" snake` or Black"snake, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A snake of a black color, of which two species are common in
the United States, the Bascanium constrictor, or racer, sometimes six
feet long, and the Scotophis Alleghaniensis, seven or eight feet
long.

Note: The name is also applied to various other black serpents, as
Natrix atra of Jamaica.

BLACK SPANISH
Black Spanish.

Defn: One of an old and well-known Mediterranean breed of domestic
fowls with glossy black plumage, blue legs and feet, bright red comb
and wattles, and white face. They are remarkable as egg layers.

BLACKSTRAP
Black"strap`, n.

1. A mixture of spirituous liquor (usually rum) and molasses.
No blackstrap to-night; switchel, or ginger pop. Judd.

2. Bad port wine; any commo wine of the Mediterranean; -- so called
by sailors.

BLACKTAIL
Black"tail`, n. Etym: [Black + tail.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish; the ruff or pope.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The black-tailed deer (Cervus or Cariacus Columbianus) of
California and Oregon; also, the mule deer of the Rocky Mountains.
See Mule deer.

BLACKTHORN
Black"thorn`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A spreading thorny shrub or small tree (Prunus spinosa), with
blackish bark, and bearing little black plums, which are called
sloes; the sloe.
(b) A species of Cratægus or hawthorn (C. tomentosa). Both are used
for hedges.

BLACK VOMIT
Black" vom"it. (Med.)

Defn: A copious vomiting of dark-colored matter; or the substance so
discharged; -- one of the most fatal symptoms in yellow fever.

BLACK WASH; BLACKWASH
Black" wash` or Black"wash, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: A lotion made by mixing calomel and lime water.

2. A wash that blackens, as opposed to whitewash; hence,
figuratively, calumny.
To remove as far as he can the modern layers of black wash, and let
the man himself, fair or foul, be seen. C. Kingsley.

BLACKWATER STATE
Black"wa`ter State.

Defn: Nebraska; -- a nickname alluding to the dark color of the water
of its rivers, due to the presence of a black vegetable mold in the
soil.

BLACKWOOD
Black"wood, n.

Defn: A name given to several dark-colored timbers. The East Indian
black wood is from the tree Dalbergia latifolia. Balfour.

BLACKWORK
Black"work`, n.

Defn: Work wrought by blacksmiths; -- so called in distinction from
that wrought by whitesmiths. Knight.

BLADDER
Blad"der, n. Etym: [OE. bladder, bleddre, AS. bl, bl; akin to Icel.
bla, SW. bläddra, Dan. blære, D. blaar, OHG. blatara the bladder in
the body of animals, G. blatter blister, bustule; all fr. the same
root as AS. blawan, E. blow, to puff. See Blow to puff.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A bag or sac in animals, which serves as the receptacle of some
fluid; as, the urinary bladder; the gall bladder; -- applied
especially to the urinary bladder, either within the animal, or when
taken out and inflated with air.

2. Any vesicle or blister, especially if filled with air, or a thin,
watery fluid.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A distended, membranaceous pericarp.

4. Anything inflated, empty, or unsound. "To swim with bladders of
philosophy." Rochester. Bladder nut, or Bladder tree (Bot.), a genus
of plants (Staphylea) with bladderlike seed pods.
 -- Bladder pod (Bot.), a genus of low herbs (Vesicaria) with
inflated seed pods.
 -- Bladdor senna (Bot.), a genus of shrubs (Colutea), with
membranaceous, inflated pods.
 -- Bladder worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any species of tapeworm
(Tænia), found in the flesh or other parts of animals. See Measle,
Cysticercus.
 -- Bladder wrack (Bot.), the common black rock weed of the seacoast
(Fucus nodosus and F. vesiculosus) -- called also bladder tangle. See
Wrack.

BLADDER
Blad"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bladdered; p. pr. & vb. n. Bladdering.]

1. To swell out like a bladder with air; to inflate. [Obs.] G.
Fletcher.

2. To put up in bladders; as, bladdered lard.

BLADDERWORT
Blad"der*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus (Utricularia) of aquatic or marshy plants, which
usually bear numerous vesicles in the divisions of the leaves. These
serve as traps for minute animals. See Ascidium.

BLADDERY
Blad"der*y, a.

Defn: Having bladders; also, resembling a bladder.

BLADE
Blade, n. Etym: [OE. blade, blad, AS. blæd leaf; akin to OS., D.,
Dan., & Sw. blad, Icel. bla, OHG. blat, G. blatt, and perh. to L.
folium, Gr. . The root is prob. the same as that of AS. bl, E. blow,
to blossom. See Blow to blossom, and cf. Foil leaf of metal.]

1. Properly, the leaf, or flat part of the leaf, of any plant,
especially of gramineous plants. The term is sometimes applied to the
spire of grasses.
The crimson dulse . . . with its waving blade. Percival.
First the blade, then ear, after that the full corn in the ear. Mark
iv. 28.

2. The cutting part of an instrument; as, the blade of a knife or a
sword.

3. The broad part of an oar; also, one of the projecting arms of a
screw propeller.

4. The scapula or shoulder blade.

5. pl. (Arch.)

Defn: The principal rafters of a roof. Weale.

6. pl. (Com.)

Defn: The four large shell plates on the sides, and the five large
ones of the middle, of the carapace of the sea turtle, which yield
the best tortoise shell. De Colange.

7. A sharp-witted, dashing, wild, or reckless, fellow; -- a word of
somewhat indefinite meaning.
He saw a turnkey in a trice Fetter a troublesome blade. Coleridge.

BLADE
Blade, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a blade.

BLADE
Blade, v. i.

Defn: To put forth or have a blade.
As sweet a plant, as fair a flower, is faded As ever in the Muses'
garden bladed. P. Fletcher.

BLADEBONE
Blade"bone`, n.

Defn: The scapula. See Blade, 4.

BLADED
Blad"ed, a.

1. Having a blade or blades; as a two-bladed knife.
Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass. Shak.

2. Divested of blades; as, bladed corn.

3. (Min.)

Defn: Composed of long and narrow plates, shaped like the blade of a
knife.

BLADEFISH
Blade"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A long, thin, marine fish of Europe (Trichiurus lepturus); the
ribbon fish.

BLADESMITH
Blade"smith`, n.

Defn: A sword cutler. [Obs.]

BLADY
Blad"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of blades. [R.] "Blady grass." Drayton.

BLAE
Blæ, a. Etym: [See Blue.]

Defn: Dark blue or bluish gray; lead-colored. [Scot.]

BLAEBERRY
Blæ"ber*ry, n. Etym: [Blæ + berry; akin to Icel blaber, Sw. bl, D.
blaabær. Cf. Blueberry.]

Defn: The bilberry. [North of Eng. & Scot.]

BLAGUE
Blague, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Mendacious boasting; falcefood; humbug.

BLAIN
Blain, n. Etym: [OE. blein, bleyn, AS. bl; akin to Dan. blegn, D.
blein; perh. fr. the same root as E. bladder. See Bladder.]

1. An inflammatory swelling or sore; a bulla, pustule, or blister.
Blotches and blains must all his flesh emboss. Milton.

2. (Far.)

Defn: A bladder growing on the root of the tongue of a horse, against
the windpipe, and stopping the breath.

BLAMABLE
Blam"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. blâmable.]

Defn: Deserving of censure; faulty; culpable; reprehensible;
censurable; blameworthy.
 -- Blam"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Blam"a*bly (, adv.

BLAME
Blame, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Blaming.] Etym:
[OE. blamen, F. blâr, OF. blasmer, fr. L. blasphemare to blaspheme,
LL. also to blame, fr. Gr. to speak ill to slander, to blaspheme, fr.
evil speaking, perh, for ; injury (fr. to injure) + a saying, fr. to
say. Cf. Blaspheme, and see Fame.]

1. To censure; to express disapprobation of; to find fault with; to
reproach.
We have none to blame but ourselves. Tillotson.

2. To bring reproach upon; to blemish. [Obs.]
She . . . blamed her noble blood. Spenser.
To blame, to be blamed, or deserving blame; in fault; as, the
conductor was to blame for the accident.
You were to blame, I must be plain with you. Shak.

BLAME
Blame, n. Etym: [OE. blame, fr. F. blâme, OF. blasme, fr. blâmer, OF.
blasmer, to blame. See Blame, v.]

1. An expression of disapprobation fir something deemed to be wrong;
imputation of fault; censure.
Let me bear the blame forever. Gen. xiiii. 9.

2. That which is deserving of censure or disapprobation; culpability;
fault; crime; sin.
Holy and without blame before him in love. Eph. i. 4.

3. Hurt; injury. [Obs.] Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Censure; reprehension; condemnation; reproach; fault; sin; crime;
wrongdoing.

BLAMEFUL
Blame"ful, a.

1. Faulty; meriting blame. Shak.

2. Attributing blame or fault; implying or conveying censure;
faultfinding; censorious. Chaucer.
 -- Blame"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Blame"ful*ness, n.

BLAMELESS
Blame"less, a.

Defn: Free from blame; without fault; innocent; guiltless; --
sometimes followed by of.
A bishop then must be blameless. 1 Tim. iii. 2.
Blameless still of arts that polish to deprave. Mallet.
We will be blameless of this thine oath. Josh. ii. 17.

Syn.
 -- Irreproachable; sinless; unblemished; inculpable.
 -- Blameless, Spotless, Faultless, Stainless. We speak of a thing as
blameless when it is free from blame, or the just imputation of
fault; as, a blameless life or character. The others are stronger. We
speak of a thing as faultless, stainless, or spotless, only when we
mean that it is absolutely without fault or blemish; as, a spotless
or stainless reputation; a faultless course of conduct. The last
three words apply only to the general character, while blameless may
be used in reverence to particular points; as, in this transaction he
was wholly blameless. We also apply faultless to personal appearance;
as, a faultless figure; which can not be done in respect to any of
the other words.

BLAMELESSLY
Blame"less*ly, adv.

Defn: In a blameless manner.

BLAMELESSNESS
Blame"less*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being blameless; innocence.

BLAMER
Blam"er, n.

Defn: One who blames. Wyclif.

BLAMEWORTHY
Blame"wor`thy, a.

Defn: Deserving blame; culpable; reprehensible.
 -- Blame"wor`thi*ness, n.

BLANC
Blanc, n. [F., white.]

1. A white cosmetic.

2.  A white sauce of fat, broth, and vegetables, used esp. for
braised meat.

BLANCARD
Blan"card, n. Etym: [F., fr. blanc white.]

Defn: A kind of linen cloth made in Normandy, the thread of which is
partly blanches before it is woven.

BLANCH
Blanch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blanched; p. pr. & vb. n. Blanching.]
Etym: [OE. blanchen, blaunchen, F. blanchir, fr. blanc white. See
Blank, a.]

1. To take the color out of, and make white; to bleach; as, to blanch
linen; age has blanched his hair.

2. (Gardening)

Defn: To bleach by excluding the light, as the stalks or leaves of
plants, by earthing them up or tying them together.

3. (Confectionery & Cookery)
(a) To make white by removing the skin of, as by scalding; as, to
blanch almonds.
(b) To whiten, as the surface of meat, by plunging into boiling water
and afterwards into cold, so as to harden the surface and retain the
juices.

4. To give a white luster to (silver, before stamping, in the process
of coining.).

5. To cover (sheet iron) with a coating of tin.

6. Fig.: To whiten; to give a favorable appearance to; to whitewash;
to palliate.
Blanch over the blackest and most absurd things. Tillotson.

Syn.
 -- To Blanch, Whiten. To whiten is the generic term, denoting, to
render white; as, to whiten the walls of a room. Usually (though not
of necessity) this is supposed to be done by placing some white
coloring matter in or upon the surface of the object in question. To
blanch is to whiten by the removal of coloring matter; as, to blanch
linen. So the cheek is blanched by fear, i. e., by the withdrawal of
the blood, which leaves it white.

BLANCH
Blanch, v. i.

Defn: To grow or become white; as, his cheek blanched with fear; the
rose blanches in the sun.
[Bones] blanching on the grass. Tennyson.

BLANCH
Blanch, v. t. Etym: [See Blench.]

1. To avoid, as from fear; to evade; to leave unnoticed. [Obs.]
Ifs and ands to qualify the words of treason, whereby every man might
express his malice and blanch his danger. Bacon.
I suppose you will not blanch Paris in your way. Reliq. Wot.

2. To cause to turn aside or back; as, to blanch a deer.

BLANCH
Blanch, v. i.

Defn: To use evasion. [Obs.]
Books will speak plain, when counselors blanch. Bacon.

BLANCH
Blanch, n. (Mining)

Defn: Ore, not in masses, but mixed with other minerals.

BLANCHARD LATHE
Blan"chard lathe. [After Thomas Blanchard, American inventor.]
(Mach.)

Defn: A kind of wood-turning lathe for making noncircular and
irregular forms, as felloes, gun stocks, lasts, spokes, etc., after a
given pattern. The pattern and work rotate on parallel spindles in
the same direction with the same speed, and the work is shaped by a
rapidly rotating cutter whose position is varied by the pattern
acting as a cam upon a follower wheel traversing slowly along the
pattern.

BLANCHER
Blanch"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, blanches or whitens; esp., one who
anneals and cleanses money; also, a chemical preparation for this
purpose.

BLANCHER
Blanch"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, frightens away or turns aside. [Obs.]
And Gynecia, a blancher, which kept the dearest deer from her. Sir P.
Sidney.
And so even now hath he divers blanchers belonging to the market, to
let and stop the light of the gospel. Latimer.

BLANCH HOLDING
Blanch" hold`ing. (Scots Law)

Defn: A mode of tenure by the payment of a small duty in white rent
(silver) or otherwise.

BLANCHIMETER
Blanch*im"e*ter, n. Etym: [1st blanch + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the bleaching power of chloride of
lime and potash; a chlorometer. Ure.

BLANCMANGE
Blanc*mange", n. Etym: [F. blancmanger, lit. white food; blanc white
+ manger to eat.] (Cookery)

Defn: A preparation for desserts, etc., made from isinglass, sea
moss, cornstarch, or other gelatinous or starchy substance, with
mild, usually sweetened and flavored, and shaped in a mold.

BLANCMANGER
Blanc*man"ger, n. Etym: [F. See Blancmange.]

Defn: A sort of fricassee with white sauce, variously made of capon,
fish, etc. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BLAND
Bland, a. Etym: [L. blandus, of unknown origin.]

1. Mild; soft; gentle; smooth and soothing in manner; suave; as, a
bland temper; bland persuasion; a bland sycophant. "Exhilarating
vapor bland." Milton.

2. Having soft and soothing qualities; not drastic or irritating; not
stimulating; as, a bland oil; a bland diet.

BLANDATION
Blan*da"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. L. blanditia, blandities, fr. blandus.
See Bland.]

Defn: Flattery. [Obs.]

BLANDILOQUENCE
Blan*dil"o*quence, n. Etym: [L. blandiloquentia; blandus mild + loqui
to speak.]

Defn: Mild, flattering speech.

BLANDILOQUOUS; BLANDILOQUIOUS
Blan*dil"o*quous, Blan*di*lo"qui*ous, a.

Defn: Fair-spoken; flattering.

BLANDISE
Blan"dise, v. i. Etym: [Same word as Blandish.]

Defn: To blandish any one. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BLANDISH
Blan"dish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blandished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Blandishing.] Etym: [OE. blaundisen, F. blandir, fr. L. blandiri, fr.
blandus mild, flattering.]

1. To flatter with kind words or affectionate actions; to caress; to
cajole.

2. To make agreeable and enticing.
Mustering all her wiles, With blandished parleys. Milton.

BLANDISHER
Blan"dish*er, n.

Defn: One who uses blandishments.

BLANDISHMENT
Blan"dish*ment, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. blandissement.]

Defn: The act of blandishing; a word or act expressive of affection
or kindness, and tending to win the heart; soft words and artful
caresses; cajolery; allurement.
Cowering low with blandishment. Milton.
Attacked by royal smiles, by female blandishments. Macaulay.

BLANDLY
Bland"ly, adv.

Defn: In a bland manner; mildly; suavely.

BLANDNESS
Bland"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being bland.

BLANK
Blank, a. Etym: [OE. blank, blonc, blaunc, blaunche, fr. F. blanc,
fem. blanche, fr. OHG. blanch shining, bright, white, G. blank; akin
to E. blink, cf. also AS. blanc white. Blink, and cf. 1st Blanch.]

1. Of a white or pale color; without color.
To the blank moon Her office they prescribed. Milton.

2. Free from writing, printing, or marks; having an empty space to be
filled in with some special writing; -- said of checks, official
documents, etc.; as, blank paper; a blank check; a blank ballot.

3. Utterly confounded or discomfited.
Adam . . . astonied stood, and blank. Milton.

4. Empty; void; without result; fruitless; as, a blank space; a blank
day.

5. Lacking characteristics which give variety; as, a blank desert; a
blank wall; destitute of interests, affections, hopes, etc.; as, to
live a blank existence; destitute of sensations; as, blank
unconsciousness.

6. Lacking animation and intelligence, or their associated
characteristics, as expression of face, look, etc.; expressionless;
vacant. "Blank and horror-stricken faces." C. Kingsley.
The blank . . . glance of a half returned consciousness. G. Eliot.

7. Absolute; downright; unmixed; as, blank terror. Blank bar (Law), a
plea put in to oblige the plaintiff in an action of trespass to
assign the certain place where the trespass was committed; -- called
also common bar.
 -- Blank cartridge, a cartridge containing no ball.
 -- Blank deed. See Deed.
 -- Blank door, or Blank window (Arch.), a depression in a wall of
the size of a door or window, either for symmetrical effect, or for
the more convenient insertion of a door or window at a future time,
should it be needed.
 -- Blank indorsement (Law), an indorsement which omits the name of
the person in whose favor it is made; it is usually made by simply
writing the name of the indorser on the back of the bill.
 -- Blank line (Print.), a vacant space of the breadth of a line, on
a printed page; a line of quadrats.
 -- Blank tire (Mech.), a tire without a flange.
 -- Blank tooling. See Blind tooling, under Blind.
 -- Blank verse. See under Verse.
 -- Blank wall, a wall in which there is no opening; a dead wall.

BLANK
Blank, n.

1. Any void space; a void space on paper, or in any written
instrument; an interval void of consciousness, action, result, etc; a
void.
I can not write a paper full, I used to do; and yet I will not
forgive a blank of half an inch from you. Swift.
From this time there ensues a long blank in the history of French
legislation. Hallam.
I was ill. I can't tell how long -- it was a blank. G. Eliot.

2. A lot by which nothing is gained; a ticket in a lottery on which
no prize is indicated.
In Fortune's lottery lies A heap of blanks, like this, for one small
prize. Dryden.

3. A paper unwritten; a paper without marks or characters a blank
ballot; -- especially, a paper on which are to be inserted designated
items of information, for which spaces are left vacant; a bland form.
The freemen signified their approbation by an inscribed vote, and
their dissent by a blank. Palfrey.

4. A paper containing the substance of a legal instrument, as a deed,
release, writ, or execution, with spaces left to be filled with
names, date, descriptions, etc.

5. The point aimed at in a target, marked with a white spot; hence,
the object to which anything is directed.
Let me still remain The true blank of thine eye. Shak.

6. Aim; shot; range. [Obs.]
I have stood . . . within the blank of his displeasure For my free
speech. Shak.

7. A kind of base silver money, first coined in England by Henry V.,
and worth about 8 pence; also, a French coin of the seventeenth
century, worth about 4 pence. Nares.

8. (Mech.)

Defn: A piece of metal prepared to be made into something by a
further operation, as a coin, screw, nuts.

9. (Dominoes)

Defn: A piece or division of a piece, without spots; as, the "double
blank"; the "six blank." In blank, with an essential portion to be
supplied by another; as, to make out a check in blank.

BLANK
Blank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blanked; p. pr. & vb. n. Blanking.] Etym:
[Cf. 3d Blanch.]

1. To make void; to annul. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To blanch; to make blank; to damp the spirits of; to dispirit or
confuse. [Obs.]
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy. Shak.

BLANKET
Blan"ket, n. Etym: [F. blanchet, OF. also blanket, a woolen waistcoat
or shirt, the blanket of a printing press; prop. white woolen stuff,
dim. of blanc white; blanquette a kind of white pear, fr. blanc
white. See Blank, a.]

1. A heavy, loosely woven fabric, usually of wool, and having a nap,
used in bed clothing; also, a similar fabric used as a robe; or any
fabric used as a cover for a horse.

2. (Print.)

Defn: A piece of rubber, felt, or woolen cloth, used in the tympan to
make it soft and elastic.

3. A streak or layer of blubber in whales.

Note: The use of blankets formerly as curtains in theaters explains
the following figure of Shakespeare. Nares.
Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark To cry, "Hold, hold!"
Shak.
Blanket sheet, a newspaper of folio size.
 -- A wet blanket, anything which damps, chills, dispirits, or
discour

BLANKET
Blan"ket, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blanketed; p. pr. & vb. n. Blanketing.]

1. To cover with a blanket.
I'll . . . blanket my loins. Shak.

2. To toss in a blanket by way of punishment.
We'll have our men blanket 'em i' the hall. B. Jonson.

3. To take the wind out of the sails of (another vessel) by sailing
to windward of her. Blanket cattle. See Belted cattle, under Belted.

BLANKET CLAUSE
Blan"ket clause`. (Law)

Defn: A clause, as in a blanket mortgage or policy, that includes a
group or class of things, rather than a number mentioned individually
and having the burden, loss, or the like, apportioned among them.

BLANKETING
Blan"ket*ing, n.

1. Cloth for blankets.

2. The act or punishment of tossing in a blanket.
That affair of the blanketing happened to thee for the fault thou
wast guilty of. Smollett.

BLANKET MORTGAGE; BLANKET POLICY
Blan"ket mortgage or Blan"ket policy .

Defn: One that covers a group or class of things or properties
instead of one or more things mentioned individually, as where a
mortgage secures various debts as a group, or subjects a group or
class of different pieces of property to one general lien.

BLANKET STITCH
Blanket stitch.

Defn: A buttonhole stitch worked wide apart on the edge of material,
as blankets, too thick to hem.

BLANKLY
Blank"ly, adv.

1. In a blank manner; without expression; vacuously; as, to stare
blankly. G. Eliot.

2. Directly; flatly; point blank. De Quincey.

BLANKNESS
Blank"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being blank.

BLANQUETTE
Blan*quette", n. Etym: [F. blanquette, from blanc white.] (Cookery)

Defn: A white fricassee.

BLANQUILLO
Blan*quil"lo, n. Etym: [Sp. blanquillo whitish.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large fish of Florida and the W. Indies (Caulolatilus
chrysops). It is red, marked with yellow.

BLARE
Blare, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blared; p. pr. & vb. n. Blaring.] Etym:
[OE. blaren, bloren, to cry, woop; cf. G. plärren to bleat, D. blaren
to bleat, cry, weep. Prob. an imitative word, but cf. also E. blast.
Cf. Blore.]

Defn: To sound loudly and somewhat harshly. "The trumpet blared."
Tennyson.

BLARE
Blare, v. t.

Defn: To cause to sound like the blare of a trumpet; to proclaim
loudly.
To blare its own interpretation. Tennyson.

BLARE
Blare, n.

Defn: The harsh noise of a trumpet; a loud and somewhat harsh noise,
like the blast of a trumpet; a roar or bellowing.
With blare of bugle, clamor of men. Tennyson.
His ears are stunned with the thunder's blare. J. R. Drake.

BLARNEY
Blar"ney, n. Etym: [Blarney, a village and castle near Cork.]

Defn: Smooth, wheedling talk; flattery. [Colloq.] Blarney stone, a
stone in Blarney castle, Ireland, said to make those who kiss it
proficient in the use of blarney.

BLARNEY
Blar"ney, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blarneyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Blarneying.]

Defn: To influence by blarney; to wheedle with smooth talk; to make
or accomplish by blarney. "Blarneyed the landlord." Irving.
Had blarneyed his way from Long Island. S. G. Goodrich.

BLASE
Bla*sé", a. Etym: [F., p. p. of blaser.]

Defn: Having the sensibilities deadened by excess or frequency of
enjoyment; sated or surfeited with pleasure; used up.

BLASPHEME
Blas*pheme", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blasphemed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Blaspheming.] Etym: [OE. blasfem, L. blasphemare, fr. Gr. : cf. F.
blasphémer. See Blame, v.]

1. To speak of, or address, with impious irreverence; to revile
impiously (anything sacred); as, to blaspheme the Holy Spirit.
So Dagon shall be magnified, and God, Besides whom is no god,
compared with idols, Disglorified, blasphemed, and had in scorn.
Milton.
How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge
thyself on all those who thus continually blaspheme thy great and
all-glorious name Dr. W. Beveridge.

2. Figuratively, of persons and things not religiously sacred, but
held in high honor: To calumniate; to revile; to abuse.
You do blaspheme the good in mocking me. Shak.
Those who from our labors heap their board, Blaspheme their feeder
and forget their lord. Pope.

BLASPHEME
Blas*pheme", v. i.

Defn: To utter blasphemy.
He that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never
forgiveness. Mark iii. 29.

BLASPHEMER
Blas*phem"er, n.

Defn: One who blasphemes.
And each blasphemer quite escape the rod, Because the insult's not on
man, but God Pope.

BLASPHEMOUS
Blas"phe*mous, a. Etym: [L. blasphemus, Gr. .]

Defn: Speaking or writing blasphemy; uttering or exhibiting anything
impiously irreverent; profane; as, a blasphemous person; containing
blasphemy; as, a blasphemous book; a blasphemous caricature.
"Blasphemous publications." Porteus.
Nor from the Holy One of Heaven Refrained his tongue blasphemous.
Milton.

Note: Formerly this word was accented on the second syllable, as in
the above example.

BLASPHEMOUSLY
Blas"phe*mous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a blasphemous manner.

BLASPHEMY
Blas"phe*my, n. Etym: [L. blasphemia, Gr. : cf. OF. blasphemie.]

1. An indignity offered to God in words, writing, or signs; impiously
irreverent words or signs addressed to, or used in reference to, God;
speaking evil of God; also, the act of claiming the attributes or
prerogatives of deity.

Note: When used generally in statutes or at common law, blasphemy is
the use of irreverent words or signs in reference to the Supreme
Being in such a way as to produce scandal or provoke violence.

2. Figuratively, of things held in high honor: Calumny; abuse;
vilification.
Punished for his blasphemy against learning. Bacon.

-BLAST
-blast. Etym: [Gr. sprout, shoot.]

Defn: A suffix or terminal formative, used principally in biological
terms, and signifying growth, formation; as, bioblast, epiblast,
mesoblast, etc.

BLAST
Blast, n. Etym: [AS. bl a puff of wind, a blowing; akin to Icel.
blastr, OHG. blast, and fr. a verb akin to Icel. blasa to blow, OHG.
blâsan, Goth. bl (in comp.); all prob. from the same root as E. blow.
See Blow to eject air.]

1. A violent gust of wind.
And see where surly Winter passes off, Far to the north, and calls
his ruffian blasts; His blasts obey, and quit the howling hill.
Thomson.

2. A forcible stream of air from an orifice, as from a bellows, the
mouth, etc. Hence: The continuous blowing to which one charge of ore
or metal is subjected in a furnace; as, to melt so many tons of iron
at a blast.

Note: The terms hot blast and cold blast are employed to designate
whether the current is heated or not heated before entering the
furnace. A blast furnace is said to be in blast while it is in
operation, and out of blast when not in use.

3. The exhaust steam from and engine, driving a column of air out of
a boiler chimney, and thus creating an intense draught through the
fire; also, any draught produced by the blast.

4. The sound made by blowing a wind instrument; strictly, the sound
produces at one breath.
One blast upon his bugle horn Were worth a thousand men. Sir W.
Scott.
The blast of triumph o'er thy grave. Bryant.

5. A sudden, pernicious effect, as if by a noxious wind, especially
on animals and plants; a blight.
By the blast of God they perish. Job iv. 9.
Virtue preserved from fell destruction's blast. Shak.

6. The act of rending, or attempting to rend, heavy masses of rock,
earth, etc., by the explosion of gunpowder, dynamite, etc.; also, the
charge used for this purpose. "Large blasts are often used."
Tomlinson.

7. A flatulent disease of sheep. Blast furnace, a furnace, usually a
shaft furnace for smelting ores, into which air is forced by
pressure.
 -- Blast hole, a hole in the bottom of a pump stock through which
water enters.
 -- Blast nozzle, a fixed or variable orifice in the delivery end of
a blast pipe; -- called also blast orifice.
 -- In full blast, in complete operation; in a state of great
activity. See Blast, n., 2. [Colloq.]

BLAST
Blast, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Blasting.]

1. To injure, as by a noxious wind; to cause to wither; to stop or
check the growth of, and prevent from fruit-bearing, by some
pernicious influence; to blight; to shrivel.
Seven thin ears, and blasted with the east wind. Gen. xii. 6.

2. Hence, to affect with some sudden violence, plague, calamity, or
blighting influence, which destroys or causes to fail; to visit with
a curse; to curse; to ruin; as, to blast pride, hopes, or character.
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Shak.
Blasted with excess of light. T. Gray.

3. To confound by a loud blast or din.
Trumpeters, With brazen din blast you the city's ear. Shak.

4. To rend open by any explosive agent, as gunpowder, dynamite, etc.;
to shatter; as, to blast rocks.

BLAST
Blast, v. i.

1. To be blighted or withered; as, the bud blasted in the blossom.

2. To blow; to blow on a trumpet. [Obs.]
Toke his blake trumpe faste And gan to puffen and to blaste. Chaucer.

BLASTED
Blast"ed, a.

1. Blighted; withered.
Upon this blasted heath. Shak.

2. Confounded; accursed; detestable.
Some of her own blasted gypsies. Sir W. Scott.

3. Rent open by an explosive.
The blasted quarry thunders, heard remote. Wordsworth.

BLASTEMA
Blas*te"ma, n.; pl. Blastemata. Etym: [Gr. bud, sprout.] (Biol.)

Defn: The structureless, protoplasmic tissue of the embryo; the
primitive basis of an organ yet unformed, from which it grows.

BLASTEMAL
Blas*te"mal, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Relating to the blastema; rudimentary.

BLASTEMATIC
Blas`te*mat"ic, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Connected with, or proceeding from, the blastema; blastemal.

BLASTER
Blast"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, blasts or destroys.

BLASTIDE
Blas"tide, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout, fr. to grow.] (Biol.)

Defn: A small, clear space in the segments of the ovum, the precursor
of the nucleus.

BLASTING
Blast"ing, n.

1. A blast; destruction by a blast, or by some pernicious cause.
I have smitten you with blasting and mildew. Amos iv. 9.

2. The act or process of one who, or that which, blasts; the business
of one who blasts.

BLAST LAMP
Blast lamp.

Defn: A lamp provided with some arrangement for intensifying
combustion by means of a blast.

BLASTMENT
Blast"ment, n.

Defn: A sudden stroke or injury produced by some destructive cause.
[Obs.] Shak.

BLASTOCARPOUS
Blas`to*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. sprout, germ + fruit.] (Bot.)

Defn: Germinating inside the pericarp, as the mangrove. Brande & C.

BLASTOCOELE
Blas"to*coele, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout + hollow.] (Biol.)

Defn: The cavity of the blastosphere, or segmentation cavity.

BLASTOCYST
Blas"to*cyst, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout + E. cyst.] (Biol.)

Defn: The germinal vesicle.

BLASTODERM
Blas"to*derm, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout + E. derm.] (Biol.)

Defn: The germinal membrane in an ovum, from which the embryo is
developed.

BLASTODERMATIC; BLASTODERMIC
Blas`to*der*mat"ic, Blas`to*der"mic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the blastoderm.

BLASTOGENESIS
Blas`to*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout + E. genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: Multiplication or increase by gemmation or budding.

BLASTOID
Blas"toid, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the Blastoidea.

BLASTOIDEA
Blas*toid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. sprout + -oid.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the divisions of Crinoidea found fossil in paleozoic
rocks; pentremites. They are so named on account of their budlike
form.

BLASTOMERE
Blas"to*mere, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout + -mere.] (Biol.)

Defn: One of the segments first formed by the division of the ovum.
Balfour.

BLASTOPHORAL; BLASTOPHORIC
Blas`toph"o*ral, Blas`to*phor"ic, a.

Defn: Relating to the blastophore.

BLASTOPHORE
Blas"to*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout + to bear.] (Biol.)

Defn: That portion of the spermatospore which is not converted into
spermatoblasts, but carries them.

BLASTOPORE
Blas"to*pore, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout + E. pore.] (Biol.)

Defn: The pore or opening leading into the cavity of invagination, or
archenteron.

Note: [See Illust. of Invagination.] Balfour.

BLASTOSPHERE
Blas"to*sphere, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout + E. sphere.] (Biol.)

Defn: The hollow globe or sphere formed by the arrangement of the
blastomeres on the periphery of an impregnated ovum.

Note: [See Illust. of Invagination.]

BLASTOSTYLE
Blas"to*style, n. Etym: [Gr. sprout, bud + a pillar.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: In certain hydroids, an imperfect zooid, whose special function
is to produce medusoid buds. See Hydroidea, and Athecata.

BLAST PIPE
Blast" pipe`.

Defn: The exhaust pipe of a steam engine, or any pipe delivering
steam or air, when so constructed as to cause a blast.

BLASTULA
Blas"tu*la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of Gr. a sprout.] (Biol.)

Defn: That stage in the development of the ovum in which the outer
cells of the morula become more defined and form the blastoderm.

BLASTULE
Blas"tule, n. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Blastula.

BLASTY
Blast"y, a.

1. Affected by blasts; gusty.

2. Causing blast or injury. [Obs.] Boyle.

BLAT
Blat, v. i.

Defn: To cry, as a calf or sheep; to bleat; to make a senseless
noise; to talk inconsiderately. [Low]

BLAT
Blat, v. t.

Defn: To utter inconsiderately. [Low]
If I have anything on my mind, I have to blat it right out. W. D.
Howells.

BLATANCY
Bla"tan*cy, n.

Defn: Blatant quality.

BLATANT
Bla"tant, a. Etym: [Cf. Bleat.]

Defn: Bellowing, as a calf; bawling; brawling; clamoring;
disagreeably clamorous; sounding loudly and harshly. "Harsh and
blatant tone." R. H. Dana.
A monster, which the blatant beast men call. Spenser.
Glory, that blatant word, which haunts some military minds like the
bray of the trumpet. W. Irving.

BLATANTLY
Bla"tant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a blatant manner.

BLATHER
Blath"er (blath"er), v. i. & t.  [imp. & p. p. Blathered; p. pr. &
vb. n. Blathering.] [Written also blether.] [Icel. blaðra. Cf.
Blatherskite.]

Defn: To talk foolishly, or nonsensically.  G. Eliot.

BLATHER
Blath"er, n. [Written also blether.]

Defn: Voluble, foolish, or nonsensical talk; -- often in the pl.
Hall Caine.

BLATHERSKITE
Blath"er*skite, n.

Defn: A blustering, talkative fellow. [Local slang, U. S.] Barllett.

BLATTER
Blat"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blattered.] Etym: [L. blaterare to
babble: cf. F. blatérer to bleat.]

Defn: To prate; to babble; to rail; to make a senseless noise; to
patter. [Archaic] "The rain blattered." Jeffrey.
They procured . . . preachers to blatter against me, . . . so that
they had place and time to belie me shamefully. Latimer.

BLATTERATION
Blat`ter*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. blateratio a babbling.]

Defn: Blattering.

BLATTERER
Blat"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who blatters; a babbler; a noisy, blustering boaster.

BLATTERING
Blat"ter*ing, n.

Defn: Senseless babble or boasting.

BLATTEROON
Blat`ter*oon", n. Etym: [L. blatero, -onis.]

Defn: A senseless babbler or boaster. [Obs.] "I hate such
blatteroons." Howell.

BLAUBOK
Blau"bok, n. Etym: [D. blauwbok.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The blue buck. See Blue buck, under Blue.

BLAY
Blay, n. Etym: [AS. bl, fr. bl, bleak, white; akin to Icel. bleikja,
OHG. bleicha, G. bleihe. See Bleak, n. & a.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A fish. See Bleak, n.

BLAZE
Blaze (blaz), n. Etym: [OE. blase, AS. blæse, blase; akin to OHG.
blass whitish, G. blass pale, MHG. blas torch, Icel. blys torch;
perh. fr. the same root as E. blast. Cf. Blast, Blush, Blink.]

1. A stream of gas or vapor emitting light and heat in the process of
combustion; a bright flame. "To heaven the blaze uprolled." Croly.

2. Intense, direct light accompanied with heat; as, to seek shelter
from the blaze of the sun.
O dark, dark, dark, amid the blaze of noon! Milton.

3. A bursting out, or active display of any quality; an outburst; a
brilliant display. "Fierce blaze of riot." "His blaze of wrath."
Shak.
For what is glory but the blaze of fame Milton.

4. [Cf. D. bles; akin to E. blaze light.]

Defn: A white spot on the forehead of a horse.

5. A spot made on trees by chipping off a piece of the bark, usually
as a surveyor's mark.
Three blazes in a perpendicular line on the same tree indicating a
legislative road, the single blaze a settlement or neighborhood road.
Carlton.
In a blaze, on fire; burning with a flame; filled with, giving, or
reflecting light; excited or exasperated.
 -- Like blazes, furiously; rapidly. [Low] "The horses did along like
blazes tear." Poem in Essex dialect.

Note: In low language in the U. S., blazes is frequently used of
something extreme or excessive, especially of something very bad; as,
blue as blazes. Neal.

Syn.
 -- Blaze, Flame. A blaze and a flame are both produced by burning
gas. In blaze the idea of light rapidly evolved is prominent, with or
without heat; as, the blaze of the sun or of a meteor. Flame includes
a stronger notion of heat; as, he perished in the flames.

BLAZE
Blaze, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blazed; p. pr. & vb. n. Blazing.]

1. To shine with flame; to glow with flame; as, the fire blazes.

2. To send forth or reflect glowing or brilliant light; to show a
blaze.
And far and wide the icy summit blazed. Wordsworth.

3. To be resplendent. Macaulay. To blaze away, to discharge a
firearm, or to continue firing; -- said esp. of a number of persons,
as a line of soldiers. Also used (fig.) of speech or action.
[Colloq.]

BLAZE
Blaze, v. t.

1. To mark (a tree) by chipping off a piece of the bark.
I found my way by the blazed trees. Hoffman.

2. To designate by blazing; to mark out, as by blazed trees; as, to
blaze a line or path.
Champollion died in 1832, having done little more than blaze out the
road to be traveled by others. Nott.

BLAZE
Blaze, v. t. Etym: [OE. blasen to blow; perh. confused with blast and
blaze a flame, OE. blase. Cf. Blaze, v. i., and see Blast.]

1. To make public far and wide; to make known; to render conspicuous.
On charitable lists he blazed his name. Pollok.
To blaze those virtues which the good would hide. Pope.

2. (Her.)

Defn: To blazon. [Obs.] Peacham.

BLAZER
Blaz"er, n.

Defn: One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad. "Blazers of
crime." Spenser.

BLAZING
Blaz"ing, a.

Defn: Burning with a blaze; as, a blazing fire; blazing torches. Sir
W. Scott. Blazing star. (a) A comet. [Obs.] (b) A brilliant center of
attraction. (c) (Bot.) A name given to several plants; as, to
Chamælirium luteum of the Lily family; Liatris squarrosa; and Aletris
farinosa, called also colicroot and star grass.

BLAZON
Bla"zon, n. Etym: [OE. blason, blasoun, shield, fr. F. blason coat of
arms, OF. shield, from the root of AS. blæse blaze, i. e., luster,
splendor, MHG. blas torch See Blaze, n.]

1. A shield. [Obs.]

2. An heraldic shield; a coat of arms, or a bearing on a coat of
arms; armorial bearings.
Their blazon o'er his towers displayed. Sir W. Scott.

3. The art or act of describing or depicting heraldic bearings in the
proper language or manner. Peacham.

4. Ostentatious display, either by words or other means; publication;
show; description; record.
Obtrude the blazon of their exploits upon the company. Collier.
Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions, and spirit, Do give thee
fivefold blazon. Shak.

BLAZON
Bla"zon, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blazoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Blazoning.]
Etym: [From blazon, n.; confused with 4th blaze: cf. F. blasonner.]

1. To depict in colors; to display; to exhibit conspicuously; to
publish or make public far and wide.
Thyself thou blazon'st. Shak.
There pride sits blazoned on th' unmeaning brow. Trumbull.
To blazon his own worthless name. Cowper.

2. To deck; to embellish; to adorn.
She blazons in dread smiles her hideous form. Garth.

3. (Her.)

Defn: To describe in proper terms (the figures of heraldic devices);
also, to delineate (armorial bearings); to emblazon.
The coat of , arms, which I am not herald enough to blazon into
English. Addison.

BLAZON
Bla"zon, v. i.

Defn: To shine; to be conspicuous. [R.]

BLAZONER
Bla"zon*er, n.

Defn: One who gives publicity, proclaims, or blazons; esp., one who
blazons coats of arms; a herald. Burke.

BLAZONMENT
Bla"zon*ment, n.

Defn: The act or blazoning; blazoning; emblazonment.

BLAZONRY
Bla"zon*ry, n.

1. Same as Blazon, 3.
The principles of blazonry. Peacham.

2. A coat of arms; an armorial bearing or bearings.
The blazonry of Argyle. Lord Dufferin.

3. Artistic representation or display.

BLEA
Blea, n.

Defn: The part of a tree which lies immediately under the bark; the
alburnum or sapwood.

BLEABERRY
Blea"ber*ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Blaeberry.

BLEACH
Bleach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bleached; p. pr. & vb. n. Bleaching.]
Etym: [OE. blakien, blechen, v. t. & v. i., AS. blacian, bl, to grow
pale; akin to Icel. bleikja, Sw. bleka, Dan. blege, D. bleeken, G.
bleichen, AS. blac pale. See Bleak, a.]

Defn: To make white, or whiter; to remove the color, or stains, from;
to blanch; to whiten.
The destruction of the coloring matters attached to the bodies to be
bleached is effected either by the action of the air and light, of
chlorine, or of sulphurous acid. Ure.
Immortal liberty, whose look sublime Hath bleached the tyrant's cheek
in every varying clime. Smollett.

BLEACH
Bleach, v. i.

Defn: To grow white or lose color; to whiten.

BLEACHED
Bleached, a.

Defn: Whitened; make white.
Let their bleached bones, and blood's unbleaching stain, Long mark
the battlefield with hideous awe. Byron.

BLEACHER
Bleach"er, n.

Defn: One who whitens, or whose occupation is to whiten, by
bleaching.

BLEACHERY
Bleach"er*y, n.; pl. Bleacheries (.

Defn: A place or an establishment where bleaching is done.

BLEACHING
Bleach"ing, n.

Defn: The act or process of whitening, by removing color or stains;
esp. the process of whitening fabrics by chemical agents. Ure.
Bleaching powder, a powder for bleaching, consisting of chloride of
lime, or some other chemical or chemicals.

BLEAK
Bleak, a. Etym: [OE. blac, bleyke, bleche, AS. blac, bl, pale, wan;
akin to Icel. bleikr, Sw. blek, Dan. bleg, OS. bl, D. bleek, OHG.
pleih, G. bleich; all from the root of AS. blican to shine; akin to
OHG. blichen to shine; cf. L. flagrare to burn, Gr. to burn, shine,
Skr. bhraj to shine, and E. flame. Bleach, Blink, Flame.]

1. Without color; pale; pallid. [Obs.]
When she came out she looked as pale and as bleak as one that were
laid out dead. Foxe.

2. Desolate and exposed; swept by cold winds.
Wastes too bleak to rear The common growth of earth, the foodful ear.
Wordsworth.
At daybreak, on the bleak sea beach. Longfellow.

3. Cold and cutting; cheerless; as, a bleak blast.
 -- Bleak"ish, a.
 -- Bleak"ly, adv.
 -- Bleak"ness, n.

BLEAK
Bleak, n. Etym: [From Bleak, a., cf. Blay.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European river fish (Leuciscus alburnus), of the family
Cyprinidæ; the blay. [Written also blick.]

Note: The silvery pigment lining the scales of the bleak is used in
the manufacture of artificial pearls. Baird.

BLEAKY
Bleak"y, a.

Defn: Bleak. [Obs.] Dryden.

BLEAR
Blear, a. Etym: [See Blear, v.]

1. Dim or sore with water or rheum; -- said of the eyes.
His blear eyes ran in gutters to his chin. Dryden.

2. Causing or caused by dimness of sight; dim.
Power to cheat the eye with blear illusion. Milton.

BLEAR
Blear, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bleared; p. pr. & vb. n. Blearing.] Etym:
[OE. bleren; cf. Dan. plire to blink, Sw. plira to twinkle, wink, LG.
plieren; perh. from the same root as E. blink. See Blink, and cf.
Blur.]

Defn: To make somewhat sore or watery, as the eyes; to dim, or blur,
as the sight. Figuratively: To obscure (mental or moral perception);
to blind; to hoodwink.
That tickling rheums Should ever tease the lungs and blear the sight.
Cowper.
To blear the eye of, to deceive; to impose upon. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BLEARED
Bleared, a.

Defn: Dimmed, as by a watery humor; affected with rheum.
 -- Blear"ed*ness (, n.
Dardanian wives, With bleared visages, come forth to view The issue
of the exploit. Shak.

BLEAREYE
Blear"eye`, n. (Med.)

Defn: A disease of the eyelids, consisting in chronic inflammation of
the margins, with a gummy secretion of sebaceous matter. Dunglison.

BLEAR-EYED
Blear"-eyed`, a.

1. Having sore eyes; having the eyes dim with rheum; dim-sighted.
The blear-eyed Crispin. Drant.

2. Lacking in perception or penetration; short-sighted; as, a blear-
eyed bigot.

BLEAREYEDNESS
Blear"eyed`ness, n.

Defn: The state of being blear-eyed.

BLEARY
Blear"y, a.

Defn: Somewhat blear.

BLEAT
Bleat, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bleated; p. pr. & vb. n. Bleating.] Etym:
[OE. bleten, AS. bl; akin to D. blaten, bleeten, OHG. blazan, plazan;
prob. of imitative origin.]

Defn: To make the noise of, or one like that of, a sheep; to cry like
a sheep or calf.
Then suddenly was heard along the main, To low the ox, to bleat the
woolly train. Pope
The ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baas, will never answer a
calf when he bleats. Shak.

BLEAT
Bleat, n.

Defn: A plaintive cry of, or like that of, a sheep.
The bleat of fleecy sheep. Chapman's Homer.

BLEATER
Bleat"er, n.

Defn: One who bleats; a sheep.
In cold, stiff soils the bleaters oft complain Of gouty ails. Dyer.

BLEATING
Bleat"ing, a.

Defn: Crying as a sheep does.
Then came the shepherd back with his bleating flocks from the
seaside. Longfellow.

BLEATING
Bleat"ing, n.

Defn: The cry of, or as of, a sheep. Chapman.

BLEB
Bleb, n. Etym: [Prov. E. bleb, bleib, blob, bubble, blister. This
word belongs to the root of blub, blubber, blabber, and perh. blow to
puff.]

Defn: A large vesicle or bulla, usually containing a serous fluid; a
blister; a bubble, as in water, glass, etc.
Arsenic abounds with air blebs. Kirwan.

BLEBBY
Bleb"by, a.

Defn: Containing blebs, or characterized by blebs; as, blebby glass.

BLECK; BLEK
Bleck, Blek, v. t.

Defn: To blacken; also, to defile. [Obs. or Dial.] Wyclif.

BLED
Bled,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Bleed.

BLEE
Blee, n. Etym: [AS. bleó, bleóh.]

Defn: Complexion; color; hue; likeness; form. [Archaic]
For him which is so bright of blee. Lament. of Mary Magd.
That boy has a strong blee of his father. Forby.

BLEED
Bleed, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bled; p. pr. & vb. n. Bleeding.] Etym:
[OE. bleden, AS. bl, fr. bl blood; akin to Sw. blöda, Dan. blöde, D.
bloeden, G. bluten. See Blood.]

1. To emit blood; to lose blood; to run with blood, by whatever
means; as, the arm bleeds; the wound bled freely; to bleed at the
nose.

2. To withdraw blood from the body; to let blood; as, Dr. A. bleeds
in fevers.

3. To lose or shed one's blood, as in case of a violent death or
severe wounds; to die by violence. "Cæsar must bleed." Shak.
The lamb thy riot dooms to bleed to-day. Pope.

4. To issue forth, or drop, as blood from an incision.
For me the balm shall bleed. Pope.

5. To lose sap, gum, or juice; as, a tree or a vine bleeds when
tapped or wounded.

6. To pay or lose money; to have money drawn or extorted; as, to
bleed freely for a cause. [Colloq.] To make the heart bleed, to cause
extreme pain, as from sympathy or pity.

BLEED
Bleed, v. t.

1. To let blood from; to take or draw blood from, as by opening a
vein.

2. To lose, as blood; to emit or let drop, as sap.
A decaying pine of stately size, bleeding amber. H. Miller.

3. To draw money from (one); to induce to pay; as, they bled him
freely for this fund. [Colloq.]

BLEEDER
Bleed"er, n. (Med.)
(a) One who, or that which, draws blood.
(b) One in whom slight wounds give rise to profuse or uncontrollable
bleeding.

BLEEDING
Bleed"ing, a.

Defn: Emitting, or appearing to emit, blood or sap, etc.; also,
expressing anguish or compassion.

BLEEDING
Bleed"ing, n.

Defn: A running or issuing of blood, as from the nose or a wound; a
hemorrhage; the operation of letting blood, as in surgery; a drawing
or running of sap from a tree or plant.

BLEMISH
Blem"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blemished; p. pr. & vb. n. Blemishing.]
Etym: [OE. blemissen, blemishen, OF. blemir, blesmir, to strike,
injure, soil, F. blêmir to grow pale, fr. OF. bleme, blesme, pale,
wan, F. blême, prob. fr. Icel blaman the livid color of a wound, fr.
blar blue; akin to E. blue. OF. blemir properly signifies to beat one
(black and) blue, and to render blue or dirty. See Blue.]

1. To mark with deformity; to injure or impair, as anything which is
well formed, or excellent; to mar, or make defective, either the body
or mind.
Sin is a soil which blemisheth the beauty of thy soul. Brathwait.

2. To tarnish, as reputation or character; to defame.
There had nothing passed between us that might blemish reputation.
Oldys.

BLEMISH
Blem"ish, n.; pl. Blemishes (.

Defn: Any mark of deformity or injury, whether physical or moral;
anything; that diminishes beauty, or renders imperfect that which is
otherwise well formed; that which impairs reputation.
He shall take two he lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb of the
first year without blemish. Lev. xiv. 10.
The reliefs of an envious man are those little blemishes and
imperfections that discover themselves in an illustrious character.
Spectator.

Syn.
 -- Spot; speck; flaw; deformity; stain; defect; fault; taint;
reproach; dishonor; imputation; disgrace.

BLEMISHLESS
Blem"ish*less, a.

Defn: Without blemish; spotless.
A life in all so blemishless. Feltham.

BLEMISHMENT
Blem"ish*ment, n.

Defn: The state of being blemished; blemish; disgrace; damage;
impairment.
For dread of blame and honor's blemishment. Spenser.

BLENCH
Blench, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blenched; p. pr. & vb. n. Blenching.]
Etym: [OE. blenchen to blench, elude, deceive, AS. blencan to
deceive; akin to Icel. blekkja to impose upon. Prop. a causative of
blink to make to wink, to deceive. See Blink, and cf. 3d Blanch.]

1. To shrink; to start back; to draw back, from lack of courage or
resolution; to flinch; to quail.
Blench not at thy chosen lot. Bryant.
This painful, heroic task he undertook, and never blenched from its
fulfillment. Jeffrey.

2. To fly off; to turn aside. [Obs.]
Though sometimes you do blench from this to that. Shak.

BLENCH
Blench, v. t.

1. To baffle; to disconcert; to turn away; -- also, to obstruct; to
hinder. [Obs.]
Ye should have somewhat blenched him therewith, yet he might and
would of likelihood have gone further. Sir T. More.

2. To draw back from; to deny from fear. [Obs.]
He now blenched what before he affirmed. Evelyn.

BLENCH
Blench, n.

Defn: A looking aside or askance. [Obs.]
These blenches gave my heart another youth. Shak.

BLENCH
Blench, v. i. & t. Etym: [See 1st Blanch.]

Defn: To grow or make pale. Barbour.

BLENCHER
Blench"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, scares another; specifically, a person
stationed to prevent the escape of the deer, at a hunt. See Blancher.
[Obs.]

2. One who blenches, flinches, or shrinks back.

BLENCH HOLDING
Blench" hold`ing. (Law)

Defn: See Blanch holding.

BLEND
Blend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blended or Blent; p. pr. & vb. n.
Blending.] Etym: [OE. blenden, blanden, AS. blandan to blend, mix;
akin to Goth. blandan to mix, Icel. blanda, Sw. blanda, Dan. blande,
OHG. blantan to mis; to unknown origin.]

1. To mix or mingle together; esp. to mingle, combine, or associate
so that the separate things mixed, or the line of demarcation, can
not be distinguished. Hence: To confuse; to confound.
Blending the grand, the beautiful, the gay. Percival.

2. To pollute by mixture or association; to spoil or corrupt; to
blot; to stain. [Obs.] Spenser.

Syn.
 -- To commingle; combine; fuse; merge; amalgamate; harmonize.

BLEND
Blend, v. i.

Defn: To mingle; to mix; to unite intimately; to pass or shade
insensibly into each other, as colors.
There is a tone of solemn and sacred feeling that blends with our
conviviality. Irving.

BLEND
Blend, n.

Defn: A thorough mixture of one thing with another, as color, tint,
etc., into another, so that it cannot be known where one ends or the
other begins.

BLEND
Blend, v. t. Etym: [AS. blendan, from blind blind. See Blind, a.]

Defn: To make blind, literally or figuratively; to dazzle; to
deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BLENDE
Blende, n. Etym: [G., fr. blenden to blind, dazzle, deceive, fr.
blind blind. So called either in allusion to its dazzling luster; or
(Dana) because, though often resembling galena, it yields no lead.
Cf. Sphalerite.] (Min.)
(a) A mineral, called also sphalerite, and by miners mock lead, false
galena, and black-jack. It is a zinc sulphide, but often contains
some iron. Its color is usually yellow, brown, or black, and its
luster resinous.
(b) A general term for some minerals, chiefly metallic sulphides
which have a somewhat brilliant but nonmetallic luster.

BLENDER
Blend"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, blends; an instrument, as a brush, used
in blending.

BLENDING
Blend"ing, n.

1. The act of mingling.

2. (Paint.)

Defn: The method of laying on different tints so that they may mingle
together while wet, and shade into each other insensibly. Weale.

BLENDOUS
Blend"ous, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, blende.

BLENDWATER
Blend"wa`ter, n.

Defn: A distemper incident to cattle, in which their livers are
affected. Crabb.

BLENHEIM SPANIEL
Blen"heim span"iel. Etym: [So called from Blenheim House, the seat of
the duke of Marlborough, in England.]

Defn: A small variety of spaniel, kept as a pet.

BLENK
Blenk, v. i.

Defn: To blink; to shine; to look. [Obs.]

BLENNIOID; BLENNIID
Blen"ni*oid, Blen"ni*id, a. Etym: [Blenny + -oid] (Zoöl.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the blennies.

BLENNOGENOUS
Blen*nog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. mucus + -genous.]

Defn: Generating mucus.

BLENNORRHEA
Blen`nor*rhe"a, n. Etym: [Gr. mucus + to flow.] (Med.)
(a) An inordinate secretion and discharge of mucus.
(b) Gonorrhea. Dunglison.

BLENNY
Blen"ny, n.; pl. Blennies. Etym: [L. blennius, blendius, blendea, Gr.
, fr. slime, mucus.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidæ; -- so
called from its coating of mucus. The species are numerous.

BLENT
Blent, imp. & p. p. of Blend to mingle.

Defn: Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained.
Rider and horse, friend, foe, in one red burial blent. Byron.

BLENT
Blent, imp. & p. p. of Blend to blind.

Defn: Blinded. Also (Chaucer), 3d sing. pres. Blindeth. [Obs.]

BLEPHARITIS
Bleph`a*ri"tis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  eyelid + -ilis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the eyelids. -- Bleph`a*rit"ic (#), a.

BLESBOK
Bles"bok, n. Etym: [D., fr. bles a white spot on the forehead + bok
buck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South African antelope (Alcelaphus albifrons), having a large
white spot on the forehead.

BLESS
Bless, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blessed or Blest; p. pr. & vb. n.
Blessing.] Etym: [OE. blessien, bletsen, AS. bletsian, bledsian,
bloedsian, fr. bl blood; prob. originally to consecrate by sprinkling
with blood. See Blood.]

1. To make or pronounce holy; to consecrate
And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it. Gen. ii. 3.

2. To make happy, blithesome, or joyous; to confer prosperity or
happiness upon; to grant divine favor to.
The quality of mercy is . . . twice blest; It blesseth him that gives
and him that takes. Shak.
It hath pleased thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may
continue forever before thee. 1 Chron. xvii. 27 (R. V. )

3. To express a wish or prayer for the happiness of; to invoke a
blessing upon; -- applied to persons.
Bless them which persecute you. Rom. xii. 14.

4. To invoke or confer beneficial attributes or qualities upon; to
invoke or confer a blessing on, -- as on food.
Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to
heaven, he blessed them. Luke ix. 16.

5. To make the sign of the cross upon; to cross (one's self).
[Archaic] Holinshed.

6. To guard; to keep; to protect. [Obs.]

7. To praise, or glorify; to extol for excellences.
Bless the Lord, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy
name. Ps. ciii. 1.

8. To esteem or account happy; to felicitate.
The nations shall bless themselves in him. Jer. iv. 3.

9. To wave; to brandish. [Obs.]
And burning blades about their heads do bless. Spenser.
Round his armed head his trenchant blade he blest. Fairfax.

Note: This is an old sense of the word, supposed by Johnson, Nares,
and others, to have been derived from the old rite of blessing a
field by directing the hands to all parts of it. "In drawing [their
bow] some fetch such a compass as though they would turn about and
bless all the field." Ascham.

Bless me! Bless us! an exclamation of surprise. Milton.
 -- To bless from, to secure, defend, or preserve from. "Bless me
from marrying a usurer." Shak.
To bless the doors from nightly harm. Milton.
-- To bless with, To be blessed with, to favor or endow with; to be
favored or endowed with; as, God blesses us with health; we are
blessed with happiness.

BLESSED
Bless"ed, a.

1. Hallowed; consecrated; worthy of blessing or adoration; heavenly;
holy.
O, run; prevent them with thy humble ode, And lay it lowly at his
blessed feet. Milton.

2. Enjoying happiness or bliss; favored with blessings; happy; highly
favored.
All generations shall call me blessed. Luke i. 48.
Towards England's blessed shore. Shak.

3. Imparting happiness or bliss; fraught with happiness; blissful;
joyful. "Then was a blessed time." "So blessed a disposition." Shak.

4. Enjoying, or pertaining to, spiritual happiness, or heavenly
felicity; as, the blessed in heaven.
Reverenced like a blessed saint. Shak.
Cast out from God and blessed vision. Milton.

5. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Beatified.

6. Used euphemistically, ironically, or intensively.
Not a blessed man came to set her [a boat] free. R. D. Blackmore.

BLESSEDLY
Bless"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Happily; fortunately; joyfully.
We shall blessedly meet again never to depart. Sir P. Sidney.

BLESSEDNESS
Bless"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being blessed; happiness; felicity; bliss;
heavenly joys; the favor of God.
The assurance of a future blessedness. Tillotson.
Single blessedness, the unmarried state. "Grows, lives, and dies in
single blessedness." Shak.

Syn.
 -- Delight; beatitude; ecstasy. See Happiness.

BLESSED THISTLE
Bless"ed this"tle.

Defn: See under Thistle.

BLESSER
Bless"er, n.

Defn: One who blesses; one who bestows or invokes a blessing.

BLESSING
Bless"ing, n. Etym: [AS. bletsung. See Bless, v. t.]

1. The act of one who blesses.

2. A declaration of divine favor, or an invocation imploring divine
favor on some or something; a benediction; a wish of happiness
pronounces.
This is the blessing, where with Moses the man of God blessed the
children of Israel. Deut. xxxiii. 1.

3. A means of happiness; that which promotes prosperity and welfare;
a beneficent gift.
Nature's full blessings would be well dispensed. Milton.

4. (Bib.)

Defn: A gift. [A Hebraism] Gen. xxxiii. 11.

5. Grateful praise or worship.

BLEST
Blest, a.

Defn: Blessed. "This patriarch blest." Milton.
White these blest sounds my ravished ear assail. Trumbull.

BLET
Blet, n. Etym: [F. blet, blette, a., soft from over ripeness.]

Defn: A form of decay in fruit which is overripe.

BLETONISM
Ble"ton*ism, n.

Defn: The supposed faculty of perceiving subterraneous springs and
currents by sensation; -- so called from one Bleton, of France.

BLETTING
Blet"ting, n.

Defn: A form of decay seen in fleshy, overripe fruit. Lindley.

BLEW
Blew, imp.

Defn: of Blow.

BLEYME
Bleyme, n. Etym: [F. bleime.] (Far.)

Defn: An inflammation in the foot of a horse, between the sole and
the bone. [Obs.]

BLEYNTE
Bleyn"te, imp.

Defn: of Blench. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BLICKEY
Blick"ey, n. Etym: [D. blik tin.]

Defn: A tin dinner pail. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett.

BLIGHT
Blight, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blighted; p. pr. & vb. n. Blighting.]
Etym: [Perh. contr. from AS. blicettan to glitter, fr. the same root
as E. bleak. The meaning "to blight" comes in that case from to
glitter, hence, to be white or pale, grow pale, make pale, bleach.
Cf. Bleach, Bleak.]

1. To affect with blight; to blast; to prevent the growth and
fertility of.
[This vapor] blasts vegetables, blights corn and fruit, and is
sometimes injurious even to man. Woodward.

2. Hence: To destroy the happiness of; to ruin; to mar essentially;
to frustrate; as, to blight one's prospects.
Seared in heart and lone and blighted. Byron.

BLIGHT
Blight, v. i.

Defn: To be affected by blight; to blast; as, this vine never
blights.

BLIGHT
Blight, n.

1. Mildew; decay; anything nipping or blasting; -- applied as a
general name to various injuries or diseases of plants, causing the
whole or a part to wither, whether occasioned by insects, fungi, or
atmospheric influences.

2. The act of blighting, or the state of being blighted; a withering
or mildewing, or a stoppage of growth in the whole or a part of a
plant, etc.

3. That which frustrates one's plans or withers one's hopes; that
which impairs or destroys.
A blight seemed to have fallen over our fortunes. Disraeli.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A downy species of aphis, or plant louse, destructive to fruit
trees, infesting both the roots and branches; -- also applied to
several other injurious insects.

5. pl.

Defn: A rashlike eruption on the human skin. [U. S.]

BLIGHTING
Blight"ing, a.

Defn: Causing blight.

BLIGHTINGLY
Blight"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to cause blight.

BLIMBI; BLIMBING
Blim"bi, Blim"bing, n.

Defn: See Bilimbi, etc.

BLIN
Blin, v. t. & i. Etym: [OE. blinnen, AS. blinnan; pref. be- + linnan
to cease.]

Defn: To stop; to cease; to desist. [Obs.] Spenser.

BLIN
Blin, n. Etym: [AS. blinn.]

Defn: Cessation; end. [Obs.]

BLIND
Blind, a. Etym: [AS.; akin to D., G., OS., Sw., & Dan. blind, Icel.
blindr, Goth. blinds; of uncertain origin.]

1. Destitute of the sense of seeing, either by natural defect or by
deprivation; without sight.
He that is strucken blind can not forget The precious treasure of his
eyesight lost. Shak.

2. Not having the faculty of discernment; destitute of intellectual
light; unable or unwilling to understand or judge; as, authors are
blind to their own defects.
But hard be hardened, blind be blinded more, That they may stumble
on, and deeper fall. Milton.

3. Undiscerning; undiscriminating; inconsiderate.
This plan is recommended neither to blind approbation nor to blind
reprobation. Jay.

4. Having such a state or condition as a thing would have to a person
who is blind; not well marked or easily discernible; hidden; unseen;
concealed; as, a blind path; a blind ditch.

5. Involved; intricate; not easily followed or traced.
The blind mazes of this tangled wood. Milton.

6. Having no openings for light or passage; as, a blind wall; open
only at one end; as, a blind alley; a blind gut.

7. Unintelligible, or not easily intelligible; as, a blind passage in
a book; illegible; as, blind writing.

8. (Hort.)

Defn: Abortive; failing to produce flowers or fruit; as, blind buds;
blind flowers. Blind alley, an alley closed at one end; a cul-de-sac.
 -- Blind axle, an axle which turns but does not communicate motion.
Knight.
 -- Blind beetle, one of the insects apt to fly against people, esp.
at night.
 -- Blind cat (Zoöl.), a species of catfish (Gronias nigrolabris),
nearly destitute of eyes, living in caverns in Pennsylvania.
 -- Blind coal, coal that burns without flame; anthracite coal.
Simmonds.
 -- Blind door, Blind window, an imitation of a door or window,
without an opening for passage or light. See Blank door or window,
under Blank, a.
 -- Blind level (Mining), a level or drainage gallery which has a
vertical shaft at each end, and acts as an inverted siphon. Knight.
 -- Blind nettle (Bot.), dead nettle. See Dead nettle, under Dead.
 -- Blind shell (Gunnery), a shell containing no charge, or one that
does not explode.
 -- Blind side, the side which is most easily assailed; a weak or
unguarded side; the side on which one is least able or disposed to
see danger. Swift.
 -- Blind snake (Zoöl.), a small, harmless, burrowing snake, of the
family Typhlopidæ, with rudimentary eyes.
 -- Blind spot (Anat.), the point in the retina of the eye where the
optic nerve enters, and which is insensible to light.
 -- Blind tooling, in bookbinding and leather work, the indented
impression of heated tools, without gilding; -- called also blank
tooling, and blind blocking.
 -- Blind wall, a wall without an opening; a blank wall.

BLIND
Blind, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blinded; p. pr. & vb. n. Blinding.]

1. To make blind; to deprive of sight or discernment. "To blind the
truth and me." Tennyson.
A blind guide is certainly a great mischief; but a guide that blinds
those whom he should lead is . . . a much greater. South.

2. To deprive partially of vision; to make vision difficult for and
painful to; to dazzle.
Her beauty all the rest did blind. P. Fletcher.

3. To darken; to obscure to the eye or understanding; to conceal; to
deceive.
Such darkness blinds the sky. Dryden.
The state of the controversy between us he endeavored, with all his
art, to blind and confound. Stillingfleet.

4. To cover with a thin coating of sand and fine gravel; as a road
newly paved, in order that the joints between the stones may be
filled.

BLIND
Blind, n.

1. Something to hinder sight or keep out light; a screen; a cover;
esp. a hinged screen or shutter for a window; a blinder for a horse.

2. Something to mislead the eye or the understanding, or to conceal
some covert deed or design; a subterfuge.

3. Etym: [Cf. F. blindes, pblende, fr. blenden to blind, fr. blind
blind.] (Mil.)

Defn: A blindage. See Blindage.

4. A halting place. [Obs.] Dryden.

BLIND; BLINDE
Blind, Blinde, n.

Defn: See Blende.

BLINDAGE
Blind"age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. blindage.] (Mil.)

Defn: A cover or protection for an advanced trench or approach,
formed of fascines and earth supported by a framework.

BLINDER
Blind"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, blinds.

2. (Saddlery)

Defn: One of the leather screens on a bridle, to hinder a horse from
seeing objects at the side; a blinker.

BLINDFISH
Blind"fish` (, n.

Defn: A small fish (Amblyopsis spelæus) destitute of eyes, found in
the waters of the Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky. Related fishes from
other caves take the same name.

BLINDFOLD
Blind"fold`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blindfolded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Blindfolding.] Etym: [OE. blindfolden, blindfelden, blindfellen; AS.
blind blind + prob. fellan, fyllan, to fell, strike down.]

Defn: To cover the eyes of, as with a bandage; to hinder from seeing.
And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face. Luke
xxii. 64.

BLINDFOLD
Blind"fold`, a.

Defn: Having the eyes covered; blinded; having the mental eye
darkened. Hence: Heedless; reckless; as, blindfold zeal; blindfold
fury.
Fate's blindfold reign the atheist loudly owns. Dryden.

BLINDING
Blind"ing, a.

Defn: Making blind or as if blind; depriving of sight or of
understanding; obscuring; as, blinding tears; blinding snow.

BLINDING
Blind"ing, n.

Defn: A thin coating of sand and fine gravel over a newly paved road.
See Blind, v. t., 4.

BLINDLY
Blind"ly, adv.

Defn: Without sight, discernment, or understanding; without thought,
investigation, knowledge, or purpose of one's own.
By his imperious mistress blindly led. Dryden.

BLINDMAN'S BUFF
Blind"man's buff" (. Etym: [See Buff a buffet.]

Defn: A play in which one person is blindfolded, and tries to catch
some one of the company and tell who it is.
Surely he fancies I play at blindman's buff with him, for he thinks I
never have my eyes open. Stillingfleet.

BLINDMAN'S HOLIDAY
Blind`man's hol"i*day.

Defn: The time between daylight and candle light. [Humorous]

BLINDNESS
Blind"ness, n.

Defn: State or condition of being blind, literally or figuratively.
Darwin. Color blindness, inability to distinguish certain color. See
Daltonism.

BLIND READER
Blind reader.

Defn: A post-office clerk whose duty is to decipher obscure
addresses.

BLINDSTORY
Blind"sto`ry, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The triforium as opposed to the clearstory.

BLINDWORM
Blind"worm`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small, burrowing, snakelike, limbless lizard (Anguis
fragilis), with minute eyes, popularly believed to be blind; the
slowworm; -- formerly a name for the adder.
Newts and blindworms do no wrong. Shak.

BLINK
Blink, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Blinking.] Etym:
[OE. blenken; akin to dan. blinke, Sw. blinka, G. blinken to shine,
glance, wink, twinkle, D. blinken to shine; and prob. to D. blikken
to glance, twinkle, G. blicken to look, glance, AS. blican to shine,
E. bleak. sq. root98. See Bleak; cf. 1st Blench.]

1. To wink; to twinkle with, or as with, the eye.
One eye was blinking, and one leg was lame. Pope

2. To see with the eyes half shut, or indistinctly and with frequent
winking, as a person with weak eyes.
Show me thy chink, to blink through with mine eyne. Shak.

3. To shine, esp. with intermittent light; to twinkle; to flicker; to
glimmer, as a lamp.
The dew was falling fast, the stars began to blink. Wordsworth.
The sun blinked fair on pool and stream . Sir W. Scott.

4. To turn slightly sour, as beer, mild, etc.

BLINK
Blink, v. t.

1. To shut out of sight; to avoid, or purposely evade; to shirk; as,
to blink the question.

2. To trick; to deceive. [Scot.] Jamieson.

BLINK
Blink, n. Etym: [OE. blink. See Blink, v. i. ]

1. A glimpse or glance.
This is the first blink that ever I had of him. Bp. Hall.

2. Gleam; glimmer; sparkle. Sir W. Scott.
Not a blink of light was there. Wordsworth.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The dazzling whiteness about the horizon caused by the
reflection of light from fields of ice at sea; ice blink.

4. pl. Etym: [Cf. Blencher.] (Sporting)

Defn: Boughs cast where deer are to pass, to turn or check them.
[Prov. Eng.]

BLINKARD
Blink"ard, n. Etym: [Blind + -ard.]

1. One who blinks with, or as with, weak eyes.
Among the blind the one-eyed blinkard reigns. Marvell.

2. That which twinkles or glances, as a dim star, which appears and
disappears. Hakewill.

BLINK BEER
Blink" beer` (

Defn: Beer kept unbroached until it is sharp. Crabb.

BLINKER
Blink"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, blinks.

2. A blinder for horses; a flap of leather on a horse's bridle to
prevent him from seeing objects as his side hence, whatever obstructs
sight or discernment.
Nor bigots who but one way see, through blinkers of authority. M.
Green.

3. pl.

Defn: A kind of goggles, used to protect the eyes form glare, etc.

BLINK-EYED
Blink"-eyed` (, a.

Defn: Habitually winking. Marlowe.

BLIRT
Blirt, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A gust of wind and rain. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

BLISS
Bliss, n.; pl. Blisses. Etym: [OE. blis, blisse, AS. blis, bli, fr.
bli blithe. See Blithe.]

Defn: Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree of
happiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy.
An then at last our bliss Full and perfect is. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Blessedness; felicity; beatitude; happiness; joy; enjoyment. See
Happiness.

BLISSFUL
Bliss"ful, a.

Defn: Full of, characterized by, or causing, joy and felicity; happy
in the highest degree. "Blissful solitude." Milton.
 -- Bliss"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Bliss"ful*ness, n.

BLISSLESS
Bliss"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of bliss. Sir P. Sidney.

BLISSOM
Blis"som, v. i. Etym: [For blithesome: but cf. also Icel. bl of a
goat at heat.]

Defn: To be lustful; to be lascivious. [Obs.]

BLISSOM
Blis"som, a.

Defn: Lascivious; also, in heat; -- said of ewes.

BLISTER
Blis"ter, n. Etym: [OE.; akin to OD. bluyster, fr. the same root as
blast, bladder, blow. See Blow to eject wind.]

1. A vesicle of the skin, containing watery matter or serum, whether
occasioned by a burn or other injury, or by a vesicatory; a
collection of serous fluid causing a bladderlike elevation of the
cuticle.
And painful blisters swelled my tender hands. Grainger.

2. Any elevation made by the separation of the film or skin, as on
plants; or by the swelling of the substance at the surface, as on
steel.

3. A vesicatory; a plaster of Spanish flies, or other matter, applied
to raise a blister. Dunglison. Blister beetle, a beetle used to raise
blisters, esp. the Lytta (or Cantharis) vesicatoria, called Cantharis
or Spanish fly by druggists. See Cantharis.
 -- Blister fly, a blister beetle.
 -- Blister plaster, a plaster designed to raise a blister; --
usually made of Spanish flies.
 -- Blister steel, crude steel formed from wrought iron by
cementation; -- so called because of its blistered surface. Called
also blistered steel.
 -- Blood blister. See under Blood.

BLISTER
Blis"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blistered; p. pr. & vb. n. Blistering.]

Defn: To be affected with a blister or blisters; to have a blister
form on.
Let my tongue blister. Shak.

BLISTER
Blis"ter, v. t.

1. To raise a blister or blisters upon.
My hands were blistered. Franklin.

2. To give pain to, or to injure, as if by a blister.
This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongue. Shak.

BLISTERY
Blis"ter*y, a.

Defn: Full of blisters. Hooker.

BLITE
Blite, n. Etym: [L. blitum, Gr. .] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbs (Blitum) with a fleshy calyx. Blitum capitatum
is the strawberry blite.

BLITHE
Blithe, a. Etym: [AS. bli blithe, kind; akin to Goth. blei kind,
Icel. bli mild, gentle, Dan. & Sw. blid gentle, D. blijd blithe, OHG.
blidi kind, blithe.]

Defn: Gay; merry; sprightly; joyous; glad; cheerful; as, a blithe
spirit.
The blithe sounds of festal music. Prescott.
A daughter fair, So buxom, blithe, and debonair. Milton.

BLITHEFUL
Blithe"ful, a.

Defn: Gay; full of gayety; joyous.

BLITHELY
Blithe"ly, adv.

Defn: In a blithe manner.

BLITHENESS
Blithe"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being blithe. Chaucer.

BLITHESOME
Blithe"some, a.

Defn: Cheery; gay; merry.
The blithesome sounds of wassail gay. Sir W. Scott.
-- Blithe"some*ly, adv.
 -- Blithe"some*ness, n.

BLIVE
Blive, adv. Etym: [A contraction of Belive.]

Defn: Quickly; forthwith. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BLIZZARD
Bliz"zard, n. Etym: [Cf. Blaze to flash. Formerly, in local use, a
rattling volley; cf. "to blaze away" to fire away.]

Defn: A gale of piercingly cold wind, usually accompanied with fine
and blinding snow; a furious blast. [U. S.]

BLOAT
Bloat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bloated; p. pr. & vb. n. Bloating.] Etym:
[Cf. Icel. blotna to become soft, blautr soft, wet, Sw. blöt soft,
blöta to soak; akin to G. bloss bare, and AS. bleát wretched; or
perh. fr. root of Eng. 5th blow. Cf. Blote.]

1. To make turgid, as with water or air; to cause a swelling of the
surface of, from effusion of serum in the cellular tissue, producing
a morbid enlargement, often accompanied with softness.

2. To inflate; to puff up; to make vain. Dryden.

BLOAT
Bloat, v. i.

Defn: To grow turgid as by effusion of liquid in the cellular tissue;
to puff out; to swell. Arbuthnot.

BLOAT
Bloat, a.

Defn: Bloated. [R.] Shak.

BLOAT
Bloat, n.

Defn: A term of contempt for a worthless, dissipated fellow. [Slang]

BLOAT
Bloat, v. t.

Defn: To dry (herrings) in smoke. See Blote.

BLOATED
Bloat"ed, p. a.

Defn: Distended beyond the natural or usual size, as by the presence
of water, serum, etc.; turgid; swollen; as, a bloated face. Also,
puffed up with pride; pompous.

BLOATEDNESS
Bloat"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being bloated.

BLOATER
Bloat"er, n. Etym: [See Bloat, Blote.]

Defn: The common herring, esp. when of large size, smoked, and half
dried; -- called also bloat herring.

BLOB
Blob, n. Etym: [See Bleb.]

1. Something blunt and round; a small drop or lump of something
viscid or thick; a drop; a bubble; a blister. Wright.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fresh-water fish (Uranidea Richardsoni); the miller's
thumb.

BLOBBER
Blob"ber, n. Etym: [See Blubber, Blub.]

Defn: A bubble; blubber. [Low] T. Carew. Blobber lip, a thick,
protruding lip.
His blobber lips and beetle brows commend. Dryden.

BLOBBER-LIPPED
Blob"ber-lipped`, a.

Defn: Having thick lips. "A blobber-lipped shell." Grew.

BLOCAGE
Blo*cage", n. Etym: [F.] (Arch.)

Defn: The roughest and cheapest sort of rubblework, in masonry.

BLOCK
Block, n. Etym: [OE. blok; cf. F. bloc (fr. OHG.), D. & Dan. blok,
Sw. & G. block, OHG. bloch. There is also an OHG. bloch, biloh; bi by
+ the same root as that of E. lock. Cf. Block, v. t., Blockade, and
see Lock.]

1. A piece of wood more or less bulky; a solid mass of wood, stone,
etc., usually with one or more plane, or approximately plane, faces;
as, a block on which a butcher chops his meat; a block by which to
mount a horse; children's playing blocks, etc.
Now all our neighbors' chimneys smoke, And Christmas blocks are
burning. Wither.
All her labor was but as a block Left in the quarry. Tennyson.

2. The solid piece of wood on which condemned persons lay their necks
when they are beheaded.
Noble heads which have been brought to the block. E. Everett.

3. The wooden mold on which hats, bonnets, etc., are shaped. Hence:
The pattern on shape of a hat.
He wears his faith but as the fashion of his hat; it ever changes
with the next block. Shak.

4. A large or long building divided into separate houses or shops, or
a number of houses or shops built in contact with each other so as to
form one building; a row of houses or shops.

5. A square, or portion of a city inclosed by streets, whether
occupied by buildings or not.
The new city was laid out in rectangular blocks, each block
containing thirty building lots. Such an average block, comprising
282 houses and covering nine acres of ground, exists in Oxford
Street. Lond. Quart. Rev.

6. A grooved pulley or sheave incased in a frame or shell which is
provided with a hook, eye, or strap, by which it may be attached to
an object. It is used to change the direction of motion, as in
raising a heavy object that can not be conveniently reached, and
also, when two or more such sheaves are compounded, to change the
rate of motion, or to exert increased force; -- used especially in
the rigging of ships, and in tackles.

7. (Falconry)

Defn: The perch on which a bird of prey is kept.

8. Any obstruction, or cause of obstruction; a stop; a hindrance; an
obstacle; as, a block in the way.

9. A piece of box or other wood for engravers' work.

10. (Print.)

Defn: A piece of hard wood (as mahogany or cherry) on which a
stereotype or electrotype plate is mounted to make it type high.

11. A blockhead; a stupid fellow; a dolt. [Obs.]
What a block art thou ! Shak.

12. A section of a railroad where the block system is used. See Block
system, below. A block of shares (Stock Exchange), a large number of
shares in a stock company, sold in a lump. Bartlett.
 -- Block printing. (a) A mode of printing (common in China and
Japan) from engraved boards by means of a sheet of paper laid on the
linked surface and rubbed with a brush. S. W. Williams. (b) A method
of printing cotton cloth and paper hangings with colors, by pressing
them upon an engraved surface coated with coloring matter.
 -- Block system on railways, a system by which the track is divided
into sections of three or four miles, and trains are so run by the
guidance of electric signals that no train enters a section or block
before the preceding train has left it.

BLOCK
Block, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Blocking.] Etym:
[Cf. F. bloquer, fr. bloc block. See Block, n.]

1. To obstruct so as to prevent passage or progress; to prevent
passage from, through, or into, by obstructing the way; -- used both
of persons and things; -- often followed by up; as, to block up a
road or harbor.
With moles . . . would block the port. Rowe.
A city . . . besieged and blocked about. Milton.

2. To secure or support by means of blocks; to secure, as two boards
at their angles of intersection, by pieces of wood glued to each.

3. To shape on, or stamp with, a block; as, to block a hat. To block
out, to begin to reduce to shape; to mark out roughly; to lay out;
as, to block out a plan.

BLOCKADE
Block*ade", n. Etym: [Cf. It. bloccata. See Block, v. t. ]

1. The shutting up of a place by troops or ships, with the purpose of
preventing ingress or egress, or the reception of supplies; as, the
blockade of the ports of an enemy.

Note: Blockade is now usually applied to an investment with ships or
vessels, while siege is used of an investment by land forces. To
constitute a blockade, the investing power must be able to apply its
force to every point of practicable access, so as to render it
dangerous to attempt to enter; and there is no blockade of that port
where its force can not be brought to bear. Kent.

2. An obstruction to passage. To raise a blockade. See under Raise.

BLOCKADE
Block*ade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blockaded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Blockading.]

1. To shut up, as a town or fortress, by investing it with troops or
vessels or war for the purpose of preventing ingress or egress, or
the introduction of supplies. See note under Blockade, n. "Blockaded
the place by sea." Gilpin.

2. Hence, to shut in so as to prevent egress.
Till storm and driving ice blockade him there. Wordsworth.

3. To obstruct entrance to or egress from.
Huge bales of British cloth blockade the door. Pope.

BLOCKADER
Block*ad"er, n.

1. One who blockades.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel employed in blockading.

BLOCKAGE
Block"age, n.

Defn: The act of blocking up; the state of being blocked up.

BLOCK BOOK
Block" book` (.

Defn: A book printed from engraved wooden blocks instead of movable
types.

BLOCK CHAIN
Block chain. (Mach.)

Defn: A chain in which the alternate links are broad blocks connected
by thin side links pivoted to the ends of the blocks, used with
sprocket wheels to transmit power, as in a bicycle.

BLOCKHEAD
Block"head` (, n. Etym: [Block + head.]

Defn: A stupid fellow; a dolt; a person deficient in understanding.
The bookful blockhead, ignorantly read, With loads of learned lumber
in his head. Pope.

BLOCKHEADED
Block"head`ed, a.

Defn: Stupid; dull.

BLOCKHEADISM
Block"head*ism, n.

Defn: That which characterizes a blockhead; stupidity. Carlyle.

BLOCKHOUSE
Block"house` (, n. Etym: [Block + house: cf. G. blockhaus.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: An edifice or structure of heavy timbers or logs for military
defense, having its sides loopholed for musketry, and often an upper
story projecting over the lower, or so placed upon it as to have its
sides make an angle wit the sides of the lower story, thus enabling
the defenders to fire downward, and in all directions; -- formerly
much used in America and Germany.

2. A house of squared logs. [West. & South. U. S.]

BLOCKING
Block"ing, n.

1. The act of obstructing, supporting, shaping, or stamping with a
block or blocks.

2. Blocks used to support (a building, etc.) temporarily.

BLOCKING COURSE
Block"ing course` (. (Arch.)

Defn: The finishing course of a wall showing above a cornice.

BLOCKISH
Block"ish, a.

Defn: Like a block; deficient in understanding; stupid; dull.
"Blockish Ajax." Shak.
 -- Block"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Block"ish*ness, n.

BLOCKLIKE
Block"like` (, a.

Defn: Like a block; stupid.

BLOCK SIGNAL
Block signal. (Railroads)

Defn: One of the danger signals or safety signals which guide the
movement of trains in a block system. The signal is often so coupled
with a switch that act of opening or closing the switch operates the
signal also.

BLOCK SYSTEM
Block system. (Railroads)

Defn: A system by which the track is divided into short sections, as
of three or four miles, and trains are so run by the guidance of
electric, or combined electric and pneumatic, signals that no train
enters a section or block until the preceding train has left it, as
in absolute blocking, or that a train may be allowed to follow
another into a block as long as it proceeds with excessive caution,
as in permissive blocking.

BLOCK TIN
Block" tin` (.

Defn: See under Tin.

BLOEDITE
Bloe"dite, n. Etym: [From the chemist Blöde.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous sulphate of magnesium and sodium.

BLOLLY
Blol"ly, n. (Bot.)
 (a) A shrub or small tree of southern Florida and the West Indies
(Pisonia obtusata) with smooth oval leaves and a hard, 10-ribbed
fruit.
 (b) The rubiaceous shrub Chicocca racemosa, of the same region.

BLOMARY
Blom"a*ry, n.

Defn: See Bloomery.

BLONCKET; BLONKET
Blonc"ket, Blon"ket, a. Etym: [OF. blanquet whitish, dim. of blanc
white. Cf. Blanket.]

Defn: Gray; bluish gray. [Obs.]
Our bloncket liveries been all too sad. Spenser.

BLOND; BLONDE
Blond, Blonde, a. Etym: [F., fair, light, of uncertain origin; cf.
AS. blonden-feax gray-haired, old, prop. blended-haired, as a mixture
of white and brown or black. See Blend, v. t. ]

Defn: Of a fair color; light-colored; as, blond hair; a blond
complexion.

BLONDE
Blonde, n. Etym: [F.]

1. A person of very fair complexion, with light hair and light blue
eyes. [Written also blond.]

2. Etym: [So called from its color.]

Defn: A kind of silk lace originally of the color of raw silk, now
sometimes dyed; -- called also blond lace.

BLOND METAL
Blond" met`al.

Defn: A variety of clay ironstone, in Staffordshire, England, used
for making tools.

BLONDNESS
Blond"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being blond. G. Eliot.

BLOOD
Blood, n. Etym: [OE. blod, blood, AS. bl; akin to D. bloed, OHG.
bluot, G. blut, Goth, bl, Sw. & Dan. blod; prob. fr. the same root as
E. blow to bloom. See Blow to bloom.]

1. The fluid which circulates in the principal vascular system of
animals, carrying nourishment to all parts of the body, and bringing
away waste products to be excreted. See under Arterial.

Note: The blood consists of a liquid, the plasma, containing minute
particles, the blood corpuscles. In the invertebrate animals it is
usually nearly colorless, and contains only one kind of corpuscles;
but in all vertebrates, except Amphioxus, it contains some colorless
corpuscles, with many more which are red and give the blood its
uniformly red color. See Corpuscle, Plasma.

2. Relationship by descent from a common ancestor; consanguinity;
kinship.
To share the blood of Saxon royalty. Sir W. Scott.
A friend of our own blood. Waller.
Half blood (Law), relationship through only one parent.
 -- Whole blood, relationship through both father and mother. In
American Law, blood includes both half blood, and whole blood.
Bouvier. Peters.

3. Descent; lineage; especially, honorable birth; the highest royal
lineage.
Give us a prince of blood, a son of Priam. Shak.
I am a gentleman of blood and breeding. Shak.

4. (Stock Breeding)

Defn: Descent from parents of recognized breed; excellence or purity
of breed.

Note: In stock breeding half blood is descent showing one half only
of pure breed. Blue blood, full blood, or warm blood, is the same as
blood.

5. The fleshy nature of man.
Nor gives it satisfaction to our blood. Shak.

6. The shedding of blood; the taking of life, murder; manslaughter;
destruction.
So wills the fierce, avenging sprite, Till blood for blood atones.
Hood.

7. A bloodthirsty or murderous disposition. [R.]
He was a thing of blood, whose every motion Was timed with dying
cries. Shak.

8. Temper of mind; disposition; state of the passions; -- as if the
blood were the seat of emotions.
When you perceive his blood inclined to mirth. Shak.

Note: Often, in this sense, accompanied with bad, cold, warm, or
other qualifying word. Thus, to commit an act in cold blood, is to do
it deliberately, and without sudden passion; to do it in bad blood,
is to do it in anger. Warm blood denotes a temper inflamed or
irritated. To warm or heat the blood is to excite the passions.
Qualified by up, excited feeling or passion is signified; as, my
blood was up.

9. A man of fire or spirit; a fiery spark; a gay, showy man; a rake.
Seest thou not . . . how giddily 'a turns about all the hot bloods
between fourteen and five and thirty Shak.
It was the morning costume of a dandy or blood. Thackeray.

10. The juice of anything, especially if red.
He washed . . . his clothes in the blood of grapes. Gen. xiix. 11.

Note: Blood is often used as an adjective, and as the first part of
self-explaining compound words; as, blood-bespotted, blood-bought,
blood-curdling, blood-dyed, blood-red, blood-spilling, blood-stained,
blood-warm, blood-won. Blood baptism (Eccl. Hist.), the martyrdom of
those who had not been baptized. They were considered as baptized in
blood, and this was regarded as a full substitute for literal
baptism.
 -- Blood blister, a blister or bleb containing blood or bloody
serum, usually caused by an injury.
 -- Blood brother, brother by blood or birth.
 -- Blood clam (Zoöl.), a bivalve mollusk of the genus Arca and
allied genera, esp. Argina pexata of the American coast. So named
from the color of its flesh.
 -- Blood corpuscle. See Corpuscle.
 -- Blood crystal (Physiol.), one of the crystals formed by the
separation in a crystalline form of the hæmoglobin of the red blood
corpuscles; hæmatocrystallin. All blood does not yield blood
crystals.
 -- Blood heat, heat equal to the temperature of human blood, or
about 98½ º Fahr.
 -- Blood horse, a horse whose blood or lineage is derived from the
purest and most highly prized origin or stock.
 -- Blood money. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Blood orange, an orange with dark red pulp.
 -- Blood poisoning (Med.), a morbid state of the blood caused by the
introduction of poisonous or infective matters from without, or the
absorption or retention of such as are produced in the body itself;
toxæmia.
 -- Blood pudding, a pudding made of blood and other materials.
 -- Blood relation, one connected by blood or descent.
 -- Blood spavin. See under Spavin.
 -- Blood vessel. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Blue blood, the blood of noble or aristocratic families, which,
according to a Spanish prover , has in it a tinge of blue; -- hence,
a member of an old and aristocratic family.
 -- Flesh and blood. (a) A blood relation, esp. a child. (b) Human
nature.
 -- In blood (Hunting), in a state of perfect health and vigor. Shak.
 -- To let blood. See under Let.
 -- Prince of the blood, the son of a sovereign, or the issue of a
royal family. The sons, brothers, and uncles of the sovereign are
styled princes of the blood royal; and the daughters, sisters, and
aunts are princesses of the blood royal.

BLOOD
Blood, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blooded; p. pr. & vb. n. Blooding.]

1. To bleed. [Obs.] Cowper.

2. To stain, smear or wet, with blood. [Archaic]
Reach out their spears afar, And blood their points. Dryden.

3. To give (hounds or soldiers) a first taste or sight of blood, as
in hunting or war.
It was most important too that his troops should be blooded.
Macaulay.

4. To heat the blood of; to exasperate. [Obs.]
The auxiliary forces of the French and English were much blooded one
against another. Bacon.

BLOODBIRD
Blood"bird` (, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: An Australian honeysucker (Myzomela sanguineolata); -- so
called from the bright red color of the male bird.

BLOOD-BOLTERED
Blood"-bol`tered, a. Etym: [Blood + Prov. E. bolter to mat in tufts.
Cf. Balter.]

Defn: Having the hair matted with clotted blood. [Obs. & R.]
The blood-boltered Banquo smiles upon me. Shak.

BLOODED
Blood"ed, a.

Defn: Having pure blood, or a large admixture or pure blood; of
approved breed; of the best stock.

Note: Used also in composition in phrases indicating a particular
condition or quality of blood; as, cold-blooded; warm-blooded.

BLOODFLOWER
Blood"flow`er, n. Etym: [From the color of the flower.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of bulbous plants, natives of Southern Africa, named
Hæmanthus, of the Amaryllis family. The juice of H. toxicarius is
used by the Hottentots to poison their arrows.

BLOODGUILTY
Blood"guilt`y, a.

Defn: Guilty of murder or bloodshed. "A bloodguilty life." Fairfax.
 -- Blood"guilt`i*ness (, n.
 -- Blood"guilt`less, a.

BLOODHOUND
Blood"hound` (, n.

Defn: A breed of large and powerful dogs, with long, smooth, and
pendulous ears, and remarkable for acuteness of smell. It is employed
to recover game or prey which has escaped wounded from a hunter, and
for tracking criminals. Formerly it was used for pursuing runaway
slaves. Other varieties of dog are often used for the same purpose
and go by the same name. The Cuban bloodhound is said to be a variety
of the mastiff.

BLOODILY
Blood"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a bloody manner; cruelly; with a disposition to shed blood.

BLOODINESS
Blood"i*ness, n.

1. The state of being bloody.

2. Disposition to shed blood; bloodthirstiness.
All that bloodiness and savage cruelty which was in our nature.
Holland.

BLOODLESS
Blood"less, a. Etym: [AS. bl.]

1. Destitute of blood, or apparently so; as, bloodless cheeks;
lifeless; dead.
The bloodless carcass of my Hector sold. Dryden.

2. Not attended with shedding of blood, or slaughter; as, a bloodless
victory. Froude.

3. Without spirit or activity.
Thou bloodless remnant of that royal blood ! Shak.
-- Blood"less*ly, adv.
 -- Blood"less*ness, n.

BLOODLET
Blood"let` (, v. t. Etym: [AS. bl; bl blood + l to let.]

Defn: bleed; to let blood. Arbuthnot.

BLOODLETTER
Blood"let`ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, lets blood; a phlebotomist.

BLOODLETTING
Blood"let`ting, n. (Med.)

Defn: The act or process of letting blood or bleeding, as by opening
a vein or artery, or by cupping or leeches; -- esp. applied to
venesection.

BLOOD MONEY
Blood" mon`ey.

1. Money paid to the next of kin of a person who has been killed by
another.

2. Money obtained as the price, or at the cost, of another's life; --
said of a reward for supporting a capital charge, of money obtained
for betraying a fugitive or for committing murder, or of money
obtained from the sale of that which will destroy the purchaser.

BLOODROOT
Blood"root` (, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis), with a red root and red sap,
and bearing a pretty, white flower in early spring; -- called also
puccoon, redroot, bloodwort, tetterwort, turmeric, and Indian paint.
It has acrid emetic properties, and the rootstock is used as a
stimulant expectorant. See Sanguinaria.

Note: In England the name is given to the tormentil, once used as a
remedy for dysentery.

BLOODSHED
Blood"shed` (, n. Etym: [Blood + shed]

Defn: The shedding or spilling of blood; slaughter; the act of
shedding human blood, or taking life, as in war, riot, or murder.

BLOODSHEDDER
Blood"shed`der, n.

Defn: One who sheds blood; a manslayer; a murderer.

BLOODSHEDDING
Blood"shed`ding, n.

Defn: Bloodshed. Shak.

BLOODSHOT
Blood"shot` (, a. Etym: [Blood + shot, p. p. of shoot to variegate.]

Defn: Red and inflamed; suffused with blood, or having the vessels
turgid with blood, as when the conjunctiva is inflamed or irritated.
His eyes were bloodshot, . . . and his hair disheveled. Dickens.

BLOOD-SHOTTEN
Blood"-shot`ten, a.

Defn: Bloodshot. [Obs.]

BLOODSTICK
Blood"stick", n. (Far.)

Defn: A piece of hard wood loaded at one end with lead, and used to
strike the fleam into the vein. Youatt.

BLOODSTONE
Blood"stone` (, n. (Min.)
(a) A green siliceous stone sprinkled with red jasper, as if with
blood; hence the name; -- called also heliotrope.
(b) Hematite, an ore of iron yielding a blood red powder or "streak."

BLOODSTROKE
Blood"stroke` (, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coup de sang.]

Defn: Loss of sensation and motion from hemorrhage or congestion in
the brain. Dunglison.

BLOODSUCKER
Blood"suck`er, n.

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any animal that sucks blood; esp., the leech (Hirudo
medicinalis), and related species.

2. One who sheds blood; a cruel, bloodthirsty man; one guilty of
bloodshed; a murderer. [Obs.] Shak.

3. A hard and exacting master, landlord, or money lender; an
extortioner.

BLOODTHIRSTY
Blood"thirst`y, a.

Defn: Eager to shed blood; cruel; sanguinary; murderous.
 -- Blood"thirst`i*ness (n.

BLOODULF
Blood"ulf, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European bullfinch.

BLOOD VESSEL
Blood" ves`sel. (Anat.)

Defn: Any vessel or canal in which blood circulates in an animal, as
an artery or vein.

BLOODWITE; BLOODWIT
Blood"wite`, Blood"wit` (, n. Etym: [AS. bl; bl blood, + wite wite,
fine.] (Anc. Law)

Defn: A fine or amercement paid as a composition for the shedding of
blood; also, a riot wherein blood was spilled.

BLOODWOOD
Blood"wood, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tree having the wood or the sap of the color of blood.

Note: Norfolk Island bloodwood is a euphorbiaceous tree (Baloghia
lucida), from which the sap is collected for use as a plant. Various
other trees have the name, chiefly on account of the color of the
wood, as Gordonia Hæmatoxylon of Jamaica, and several species of
Australian Eucalyptus; also the true logwood ( Hæmatoxylon
campechianum).

BLOODWORT
Blood"wort` (, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant, Rumex sanguineus, or bloody-veined dock. The name is
applied also to bloodroot (Sanguinaria Canadensis), and to an
extensive order of plants (Hæmodoraceæ), the roots of many species of
which contain a red coloring matter useful in dyeing.

BLOODY
Blood"y, a. Etym: [AS. bl.]

1. Containing or resembling blood; of the nature of blood; as, bloody
excretions; bloody sweat.

2. Smeared or stained with blood; as, bloody hands; a bloody
handkerchief.

3. Given, or tending, to the shedding of blood; having a cruel,
savage disposition; murderous; cruel.
Some bloody passion shakes your very frame. Shak.

4. Attended with, or involving, bloodshed; sanguinary; esp., marked
by great slaughter or cruelty; as, a bloody battle.

5. Infamous; contemptible; -- variously used for mere emphasis or as
a low epithet. [Vulgar] Thackeray.

BLOODY
Blood"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bloodied (; p. pr. & vb. n. Bloodying.]

Defn: To stain with blood. Overbury.

BLOODYBONES
Blood"y*bones` (, n.

Defn: A terrible bugbear.

BLOODY FLUX
Blood"y flux`.

Defn: The dysentery, a disease in which the flux or discharge from
the bowels has a mixture of blood. Arbuthnot.

BLOODY HAND
Blood"y hand` (.

1. A hand stained with the blood of a deer, which, in the old forest
laws of England, was sufficient evidence of a man's trespass in the
forest against venison. Jacob.

2. (Her.)

Defn: A red hand, as in the arms of Ulster, which is now the
distinguishing mark of a baronet of the United Kingdom.

BLOODY-MINDED
Blood"y-mind"ed, a.

Defn: Having a cruel, ferocious disposition; bloodthirsty. Dryden.

BLOODY SWEAT
Blood"y sweat` (.

Defn: A sweat accompanied by a discharge of blood; a disease, called
sweating sickness, formerly prevalent in England and other countries.

BLOOM
Bloom, n. Etym: [OE. blome, fr. Icel. bl, bl; akin to Sw. blom, Goth.
bl, OS. bl, D. bloem, OHG. bluomo, bluoma, G. blume; fr. the same
root as AS. bl to blow, blossom. See Blow to bloom, and cf. Blossom.]

1. A blossom; the flower of a plant; an expanded bud; flowers,
collectively.
The rich blooms of the tropics. Prescott.

2. The opening of flowers in general; the state of blossoming or of
having the flowers open; as, the cherry trees are in bloom. "Sight of
vernal bloom." Milton.

3. A state or time of beauty, freshness, and vigor; an opening to
higher perfection, analogous to that of buds into blossoms; as, the
bloom of youth.
Every successive mother has transmitted a fainter bloom, a more
delicate and briefer beauty. Hawthorne.

4. The delicate, powdery coating upon certain growing or newly-
gathered fruits or leaves, as on grapes, plums, etc. Hence: Anything
giving an appearance of attractive freshness; a flush; a glow.
A new, fresh, brilliant world, with all the bloom upon it. Thackeray.

5. The clouded appearance which varnish sometimes takes upon the
surface of a picture.

6. A yellowish deposit or powdery coating which appears on well-
tanned leather. Knight.

7. (Min.)

Defn: A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals; as,
the rose-red cobalt bloom.

BLOOM
Bloom, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Bloomed; p. pr. & vb. n. Blooming.]

1. To produce or yield blossoms; to blossom; to flower or be in
flower.
A flower which once In Paradise, fast by the tree of life, Began to
bloom. Milton.

2. To be in a state of healthful, growing youth and vigor; to show
beauty and freshness, as of flowers; to give promise, as by or with
flowers.
A better country blooms to view,
Beneath a brighter sky. Logan.

BLOOM
Bloom, v. t.

1. To cause to blossom; to make flourish. [R.]
Charitable affection bloomed them. Hooker.

2. To bestow a bloom upon; to make blooming or radiant. [R.] Milton.
While barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day. Keats.

BLOOM
Bloom, n. Etym: [AS. bl a mass or lump, isenes bl a lump or wedge of
iron.] (Metal.)
(a) A mass of wrought iron from the Catalan forge or from the
puddling furnace, deprived of its dross, and shaped usually in the
form of an oblong block by shingling.
(b) A large bar of steel formed directly from an ingot by hammering
or rolling, being a preliminary shape for further working.

BLOOMARY
Bloom"a*ry, n.

Defn: See Bloomery.

BLOOMER
Bloom"er, n. Etym: [From Mrs. Bloomer, an American, who sought to
introduce this style of dress.]

1. A costume for women, consisting of a short dress, with loose
trousers gathered round ankles, and (commonly) a broad-brimmed hat.

2. A woman who wears a Bloomer costume.

BLOOMERY
Bloom"er*y, n. (Manuf.)

Defn: A furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of blooms
is made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron.

BLOOMING
Bloom"ing, n. (Metal.)

Defn: The process of making blooms from the ore or from cast iron.

BLOOMING
Bloom"ing, a.

1. Opening in blossoms; flowering.

2. Thriving in health, beauty, and vigor; indicating the freshness
and beauties of youth or health.

BLOOMINGLY
Bloom"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a blooming manner.

BLOOMINGNESS
Bloom"ing*ness, n.

Defn: A blooming condition.

BLOOMLESS
Bloom"less, a.

Defn: Without bloom or flowers. Shelley.

BLOOMY
Bloom"y, a.

1. Full of bloom; flowery; flourishing with the vigor of youth; as, a
bloomy spray.
But all the bloomy flush of life is fled. Goldsmith.

2. Covered with bloom, as fruit. Dryden.

BLOOTH
Blooth, n.

Defn: Bloom; a blossoming. [Prov. Eng.]
All that blooth means heavy autumn work for him and his hands. T.
Hardy.

BLORE
Blore, n. Etym: [Perh. a variant of blare, v. i.; or cf. Gael. & Ir.
blor a loud noise.]

Defn: The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast. [Obs.]
A most tempestuous blore. Chapman.

BLOSMY
Blos"my, a.

Defn: Blossomy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

BLOSSOM
Blos"som, n. Etym: [OE. blosme, blostme, AS. bl, bl, blossom; akin to
D. bloesem, L. fios, and E. flower; from the root of E. blow to
blossom. See Blow to blossom, and cf. Bloom a blossom.]

1. The flower of a plant, or the essential organs of reproduction,
with their appendages; florescence; bloom; the flowers of a plant,
collectively; as, the blossoms and fruit of a tree; an apple tree in
blossom.

Note: The term has been applied by some botanists, and is also
applied in common usage, to the corolla. It is more commonly used
than flower or bloom, when we have reference to the fruit which is to
succeed. Thus we use flowers when we speak of plants cultivated for
ornament, and bloom in a more general sense, as of flowers in
general, or in reference to the beauty of flowers.
Blossoms flaunting in the eye of day. Longfellow.

2. A blooming period or stage of development; something lovely that
gives rich promise.
In the blossom of my youth. Massinger.

3. The color of a horse that has white hairs intermixed with sorrel
and bay hairs; -- otherwise called peach color. In blossom, having
the blossoms open; in bloom.

BLOSSOM
Blos"som, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blossomed; p. pr. & vb. n. Blossoming.]
Etym: [AS. bl. See Blossom, n.]

1. To put forth blossoms or flowers; to bloom; to blow; to flower.
The moving whisper of huge trees that branched And blossomed.
Tennyson.

2. To flourish and prosper.
Israel shall blossom and bud, and full the face of the world with
fruit. Isa. xxvii. 6.

BLOSSOMLESS
Blos"som*less, a.

Defn: Without blossoms.

BLOSSOMY
Blos"som*y, a.

Defn: Full of blossoms; flowery.

BLOT
Blot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Blotting.] Etym:
[Cf. Dan. plette. See 3d Blot.]

1. To spot, stain, or bespatter, as with ink.
The brief was writ and blotted all with gore. Gascoigne.

2. To impair; to damage; to mar; to soil.
It blots thy beauty, as frosts do bite the meads. Shak.

3. To stain with infamy; to disgrace.
Blot not thy innocence with guiltless blood. Rowe.

4. To obliterate, as writing with ink; to cancel; to efface; --
generally with out; as, to blot out a word or a sentence. Often
figuratively; as, to blot out offenses.
One act like this blots out a thousand crimes. Dryden.

5. To obscure; to eclipse; to shadow.
He sung how earth blots the moon's gilded wane. Cowley.

6. To dry, as writing, with blotting paper.

Syn.
 -- To obliterate; expunge; erase; efface; cancel; tarnish; disgrace;
blur; sully; smear; smutch.

BLOT
Blot, v. i.

Defn: To take a blot; as, this paper blots easily.

BLOT
Blot, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. blettr, Dan. plet.]

1. A spot or stain, as of ink on paper; a blur. "Inky blots and
rotten parchment bonds." Shak.

2. An obliteration of something written or printed; an erasure.
Dryden.

3. A spot on reputation; a stain; a disgrace; a reproach; a blemish.
This deadly blot in thy digressing son. Shak.

BLOT
Blot, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. blot bare, naked, Sw. blott, d. bloot, G.
bloss, and perh. E. bloat.]

1. (Backgammon)
(a) An exposure of a single man to be taken up.
(b) A single man left on a point, exposed to be taken up.
He is too great a master of his art to make a blot which may be so
easily hit. Dryden.

2. A weak point; a failing; an exposed point or mark.

BLOTCH
Blotch, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. blacche in blacchepot blacking pot, akin to
black, as bleach is akin to bleak. See Black, a., or cf. Blot a
spot.]

1. A blot or spot, as of color or of ink; especially a large or
irregular spot. Also Fig.; as, a moral blotch.
Spots and blotches . . . some red, others yellow. Harvey.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A large pustule, or a coarse eruption.
Foul scurf and blotches him defile. Thomson.

BLOTCHED
Blotched, a.

Defn: Marked or covered with blotches.
To give their blotched and blistered bodies ease. Drayton.

BLOTCHY
Blotch"y, a.

Defn: Having blotches.

BLOTE
Blote, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bloted; p. pr. & vb. n. Bloting.] Etym:
[Cf. Sw. blöt-fisk soaked fish, fr. blöta to soak. See 1st Bloat.]

Defn: To cure, as herrings, by salting and smoking them; to bloat.
[Obs.]

BLOTLESS
Blot"less, a.

Defn: Without blot.

BLOTTER
Blot"ter, n.

1. One who, or that which blots; esp. a device for absorbing
superfluous ink.

2. (Com.)

Defn: A wastebook, in which entries of transactions are made as they
take place.

BLOTTESQUE
Blot*tesque" (, a. (Painting)

Defn: Characterized by blots or heavy touches; coarsely depicted;
wanting in delineation. Ruskin.

BLOTTING PAPER
Blot"ting pa`per.

Defn: A kind of thick, bibulous, unsized paper, used to absorb
superfluous ink from freshly written manuscript, and thus prevent
blots.

BLOUSE
Blouse, n. Etym: [F. blouse. Of unknown origin.]

Defn: A light, loose over-garment, like a smock frock, worn
especially by workingmen in France; also, a loose coat of any
material, as the undress uniform coat of the United States army.

BLOW
Blow, v. i. [imp. Blew; p. p. Blown; p. pr. & vb. n. Blowing.] Etym:
[OE. blowen, AS. bl to blossom; akin to OS. bl, D. bloeijen, OHG.
pluojan, MHG. bl, G. blühen, L. florere to flourish, OIr. blath
blossom. Cf. Blow to puff, Flourish.]

Defn: To flower; to blossom; to bloom.
How blows the citron grove. Milton.

BLOW
Blow, v. t.

Defn: To cause to blossom; to put forth (blossoms or flowers).
The odorous banks, that blow Flowers of more mingled hue. Milton.

BLOW
Blow, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A blossom; a flower; also, a state of blossoming; a mass of
blossoms. "Such a blow of tulips." Tatler.

BLOW
Blow, n. Etym: [OE. blaw, blowe; cf. OHG. bliuwan, pliuwan, to beat,
G. bläuen, Goth. bliggwan.]

1. A forcible stroke with the hand, fist, or some instrument, as a
rod, a club, an ax, or a sword.
Well struck ! there was blow for blow. Shak.

2. A sudden or forcible act or effort; an assault.
A vigorous blow might win [Hanno's camp]. T. Arnold.

3. The infliction of evil; a sudden calamity; something which
produces mental, physical, or financial suffering or loss (esp. when
sudden); a buffet.
A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows. Shak.
At a blow, suddenly; at one effort; by a single vigorous act. "They
lose a province at a blow." Dryden.
 -- To come to blows, to engage in combat; to fight; -- said of
individuals, armies, and nations.

Syn.
 -- Stroke; knock; shock; misfortune.

BLOW
Blow, v. i. [imp. Blew; p. p. Blown; p. pr. & vb. n. Blowing.] Etym:
[OE. blawen, blowen, AS. bl to blow, as wind; akin to OHG. pl, G.
blähen, to blow up, swell, L. flare to blow, Gr. to spout out, and to
E. bladder, blast, inflate, etc., and perh. blow to bloom.]

1. To produce a current of air; to move, as air, esp. to move rapidly
or with power; as, the wind blows.
Hark how it rains and blows ! Walton.

2. To send forth a forcible current of air, as from the mouth or from
a pair of bellows.

3. To breathe hard or quick; to pant; to puff.
Here is Mistress Page at the door, sweating and blowing. Shak.

4. To sound on being blown into, as a trumpet.
There let the pealing organ blow. Milton.

5. To spout water, etc., from the blowholes, as a whale.

6. To be carried or moved by the wind; as, the dust blows in from the
street.
The grass blows from their graves to thy own. M. Arnold.

7. To talk loudly; to boast; to storm. [Colloq.]
You blow behind my back, but dare not say anything to my face.
Bartlett.
To blow hot and cold Etym: (a saying derived from a fable of , to
favor a thing at one time and treat it coldly at another; or to
appear both to favor and to oppose.
 -- To blow off, to let steam escape through a passage provided for
the purpose; as, the engine or steamer is blowing off.
 -- To blow out. (a) To be driven out by the expansive force of a gas
or vapor; as, a steam cock or valve sometimes blows out. (b) To talk
violently or abusively. [Low] -- To blow over, to pass away without
effect; to cease, or be dissipated; as, the storm and the clouds have
blown over.
 -- To blow up, to be torn to pieces and thrown into the air as by an
explosion of powder or gas or the expansive force of steam; to burst;
to explode; as, a powder mill or steam boiler blows up. "The enemy's
magazines blew up." Tatler.

BLOW
Blow, v. t.

1. To force a current of air upon with the mouth, or by other means;
as, to blow the fire.

2. To drive by a current air; to impel; as, the tempest blew the ship
ashore.
Off at sea northeast winds blow Sabean odors from the spicy shore.
Milton.

3. To cause air to pass through by the action of the mouth, or
otherwise; to cause to sound, as a wind instrument; as, to blow a
trumpet; to blow an organ.
Hath she no husband That will take pains to blow a horn before her
Shak.
Boy, blow the pipe until the bubble rise, Then cast it off to float
upon the skies. Parnell.

4. To clear of contents by forcing air through; as, to blow an egg;
to blow one's nose.

5. To burst, shatter, or destroy by an explosion; -- usually with up,
down, open, or similar adverb; as, to blow up a building.

6. To spread by report; to publish; to disclose.
Through the court his courtesy was blown. Dryden.
His language does his knowledge blow. Whiting.

7. To form by inflation; to swell by injecting air; as, to blow
bubbles; to blow glass.

8. To inflate, as with pride; to puff up.
Look how imagination blows him. Shak.

9. To put out of breath; to cause to blow from fatigue; as, to blow a
horse. Sir W. Scott.

10. To deposit eggs or larvæ upon, or in (meat, etc.).
To suffer The flesh fly blow my mouth. Shak.
To blow great guns, to blow furiously and with roaring blasts; --
said of the wind at sea or along the coast.
 -- To blow off, to empty (a boiler) of water through the blow-off
pipe, while under steam pressure; also, to eject (steam, water,
sediment, etc.) from a boiler.
 -- To blow one's own trumpet, to vaunt one's own exploits, or sound
one's own praises.
 -- To blow out, to extinguish by a current of air, as a candle.
 -- To blow up. (a) To fill with air; to swell; as, to blow up a
bladder or bubble. (b) To inflate, as with pride, self-conceit, etc.;
to puff up; as, to blow one up with flattery. "Blown up with high
conceits engendering pride." Milton. (c) To excite; as, to blow up a
contention.(d) To burst, to raise into the air, or to scatter, by an
explosion; as, to blow up a fort. (e) To scold violently; as, to blow
up a person for some offense. [Colloq.]
I have blown him up well -- nobody can say I wink at what he does. G.
Eliot.
To blow upon. (a) To blast; to taint; to bring into discredit; to
render stale, unsavory, or worthless. (b) To inform against.
[Colloq.]
How far the very custom of hearing anything spouted withers and blows
upon a fine passage, may be seen in those speeches from
[Shakespeare's] Henry V. which are current in the mouths of
schoolboys. C. Lamb.
A lady's maid whose character had been blown upon. Macaulay.

BLOW
Blow, n.

1. A blowing, esp., a violent blowing of the wind; a gale; as, a
heavy blow came on, and the ship put back to port.

2. The act of forcing air from the mouth, or through or from some
instrument; as, to give a hard blow on a whistle or horn; to give the
fire a blow with the bellows.

3. The spouting of a whale.

4. (Metal.)

Defn: A single heat or operation of the Bessemer converter. Raymond.

5. An egg, or a larva, deposited by a fly on or in flesh, or the act
of depositing it. Chapman.

BLOWBALL
Blow"ball` (, n.

Defn: The downy seed head of a dandelion, which children delight to
blow away. B. Jonson.

BLOWEN; BLOWESS
Blow"en, Blow"ess, n.

Defn: A prostitute; a courtesan; a strumpet. [Low] Smart.

BLOWER
Blow"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, blows.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: A device for producing a current of air; as: (a) A metal plate
temporarily placed before the upper part of a grate or open fire. (b)
A machine for producing an artificial blast or current of air by
pressure, as for increasing the draft of a furnace, ventilating a
building or shaft, cleansing gram, etc.

3. A blowing out or excessive discharge of gas from a hole or fissure
in a mine.

4. The whale; -- so called by seamen, from the circumstance of its
spouting up a column of water.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small fish of the Atlantic coast (Tetrodon turgidus); the
puffer.

6. A braggart, or loud talker. [Slang] Bartlett.

BLOWFLY
Blow"fly`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any species of fly of the genus Musca that deposits its eggs or
young larvæ (called flyblows and maggots) upon meat or other animal
products.

BLOWGUN
Blow"gun`, n.

Defn: A tube, as of cane or reed, sometimes twelve feet long, through
which an arrow or other projectile may be impelled by the force of
the breath. It is a weapon much used by certain Indians of America
and the West Indies; -- called also blowpipe, and blowtube. See
Sumpitan.

BLOWHOLE
Blow"hole`, n.

1. A cavern in a cliff, at the water level, opening to the air at its
farther extremity, so that the waters rush in with each surge and
rise in a lofty jet from the extremity.

2. A nostril or spiracle in the top of the head of a whale or other
cetacean.

Note: There are two spiracles or blowholes in the common whales, but
only one in sperm whales, porpoises, etc.

3. A hole in the ice to which whales, seals, etc., come to breathe.

4. (Founding)

Defn: An air hole in a casting.

BLOWN
Blown, p. p. & a.

1. Swollen; inflated; distended; puffed up, as cattle when gorged
with green food which develops gas.

2. Stale; worthless.

3. Out of breath; tired; exhausted. "Their horses much blown." Sir W.
Scott.

4. Covered with the eggs and larvæ of flies; fly blown.

BLOWN
Blown, p. p. & a.

Defn: Opened; in blossom or having blossomed, as a flower. Shak.

BLOW-OFF
Blow"-off` (, n.

1. A blowing off steam, water, etc.; -- Also, adj.

Defn: as, a blow-off cock or pipe.

2. An outburst of temper or excitement. [Colloq.]

BLOW-OUT
Blow"-out` (, n.

Defn: The cleaning of the flues of a boiler from scale, etc., by a
blast of steam.

BLOWPIPE
Blow"pipe` (, n.

1. A tube for directing a jet of air into a fire or into the flame of
a lamp or candle, so as to concentrate the heat on some object.

Note: It is called a mouth blowpipe when used with the mouth; but for
both chemical and industrial purposes, it is often worked by a
bellows or other contrivance. The common mouth blowpipe is a tapering
tube with a very small orifice at the end to be inserted in the
flame. The oxyhydrogen blowpipe, invented by Dr. Hare in 1801, is an
instrument in which oxygen and hydrogen, taken from separate
reservoirs, in the proportions of two volumes of hydrogen to one of
oxygen, are burned in a jet, under pressure. It gives a heat that
will consume the diamond, fuse platinum, and dissipate in vapor, or
in gaseous forms, most known substances.

2. A blowgun; a blowtube. Blowpipe analysis (Chem.), analysis by
means of the blowpipe.
 -- Blowpipe reaction (Chem.), the characteristic behavior of a
substance subjected to a test by means of the blowpipe.

BLOWPOINT
Blow"point` (, n.

Defn: A child's game. [Obs.]

BLOWSE
Blowse, n.

Defn: See Blowze.

BLOWTH
Blowth, n. Etym: [From Blow to blossom: cf. Growth.]

Defn: A blossoming; a bloom. [Obs. or Archaic] "In the blowth and
bud." Sir W. Raleigh.

BLOWTUBE
Blow"tube`, n.

1. A blowgun. Tylor.

2. A similar instrument, commonly of tin, used by boys for
discharging paper wads and other light missiles.

3. (Glassmaking)

Defn: A long wrought iron tube, on the end of which the workman
gathers a quantity of "metal" (melted glass), and through which he
blows to expand or shape it; -- called also blowing tube, and
blowpipe.

BLOW VALVE
Blow" valve` (. (Mach.)

Defn: See Snifting valve.

BLOWY
Blow"y, a.

Defn: Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland.

BLOWZE
Blowze, n. Etym: [Prob. from the same root as blush.]

Defn: A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench. [Obs.] Shak.

BLOWZED
Blowzed, a.

Defn: Having high color from exposure to the weather; ruddy-faced;
blowzy; disordered.
Huge women blowzed with health and wind. Tennyson.

BLOWZY
Blowz"y, a.

Defn: Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy.

BLUB
Blub, v. t. & i. Etym: [Cf. Bleb, Blob.]

Defn: To swell; to puff out, as with weeping. [Obs.]

BLUBBER
Blub"ber, n. Etym: [See Blobber, Blob, Bleb.]

1. A bubble.
At his mouth a blubber stood of foam. Henryson.

2. The fat of whales and other large sea animals from which oil is
obtained. It lies immediately under the skin and over the muscular
flesh.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large sea nettle or medusa.

BLUBBER
Blub"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blubbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Blubbering.]

Defn: To weep noisily, or so as to disfigure the face; to cry in a
childish manner.
She wept, she blubbered, and she tore her hair. Swift.

BLUBBER
Blub"ber, v. t.

1. To swell or disfigure (the face) with weeping; to wet with tears.
Dear Cloe, how blubbered is that pretty face! Prior.

2. To give vent to (tears) or utter (broken words or cries); -- with
forth or out.

BLUBBERED
Blub"bered, p. p. & a.

Defn: Swollen; turgid; as, a blubbered lip. Spenser.

BLUBBERING
Blub"ber*ing, n.

Defn: The act of weeping noisily.
He spake well save that his blubbering interrupted him. Winthrop.

BLUBBERY
Blub"ber*y, a.

1. Swollen; protuberant.

2. Like blubber; gelatinous and quivering; as, a blubbery mass.

BLUCHER
Blu"cher, n.

Defn: A kind of half boot, named from the Prussian general Blücher.
Thackeray.

BLUDGEON
Bludg"eon, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. blocan a little block, Gael. plocan a
mallet, W. plocyn, dim. of ploc block; or perh. connected with E.
blow a stroke. Cf. Block, Blow a stroke.]

Defn: A short stick, with one end loaded, or thicker and heavier that
the other, used as an offensive weapon.

BLUE
Blue, a. [Compar. Bluer; superl. Bluest.] Etym: [OE. bla, blo, blew,
blue, Sw. bl, D. blauw, OHG. bl, G. blau; but influenced in form by
F. bleu, from OHG. blao.]

1. Having the color of the clear sky, or a hue resembling it, whether
lighter or darker; as, the deep, blue sea; as blue as a sapphire;
blue violets. "The blue firmament." Milton.

2. Pale, without redness or glare, -- said of a flame; hence, of the
color of burning brimstone, betokening the presence of ghosts or
devils; as, the candle burns blue; the air was blue with oaths.

3. Low in spirits; melancholy; as, to feel blue.

4. Suited to produce low spirits; gloomy in prospect; as, thongs
looked blue. [Colloq.]

5. Severe or over strict in morals; gloom; as, blue and sour
religionists; suiting one who is over strict in morals; inculcating
an impracticable, severe, or gloomy mortality; as, blue laws.

6. Literary; -- applied to women; -- an abbreviation of bluestocking.
[Colloq.]
The ladies were very blue and well informed. Thackeray.
Blue asbestus. See Crocidolite.
 -- Blue black, of, or having, a very dark blue color, almost black.
 -- Blue blood. See under Blood.
 -- Blue buck (Zoöl.), a small South African antelope (Cephalophus
pygmæus); also applied to a larger species (Ægoceras leucophæus); the
blaubok.
 -- Blue cod (Zoöl.), the buffalo cod.
 -- Blue crab (Zoöl.), the common edible crab of the Atlantic coast
of the United States (Callinectes hastatus).
 -- Blue curls (Bot.), a common plant (Trichostema dichotomum),
resembling pennyroyal, and hence called also bastard pennyroyal.
 -- Blue devils, apparitions supposed to be seen by persons suffering
with delirium tremens; hence, very low spirits. "Can Gumbo shut the
hall door upon blue devils, or lay them all in a red sea of claret"
Thackeray.
 -- Blue gage. See under Gage, a plum.
 -- Blue gum, an Australian myrtaceous tree (Eucalyptus globulus), of
the loftiest proportions, now cultivated in tropical and warm
temperate regions for its timber, and as a protection against
malaria. The essential oil is beginning to be used in medicine. The
timber is very useful. See Eucalyptus.
 -- Blue jack, Blue stone, blue vitriol; sulphate of copper.
 -- Blue jacket, a man-of war's man; a sailor wearing a naval
uniform.
 -- Blue jaundice. See under Jaundice.
 -- Blue laws, a name first used in the eighteenth century to
describe certain supposititious laws of extreme rigor reported to
have been enacted in New Haven; hence, any puritanical laws. [U. S.]
-- Blue light, a composition which burns with a brilliant blue flame;
-- used in pyrotechnics and as a night signal at sea, and in military
operations.
 -- Blue mantle (Her.), one of the four pursuivants of the English
college of arms; -- so called from the color of his official robes.
 -- Blue mass, a preparation of mercury from which is formed the blue
pill. McElrath.
 -- Blue mold, or mould, the blue fungus (Aspergillus glaucus) which
grows on cheese. Brande & C.
 -- Blue Monday, a Monday following a Sunday of dissipation, or
itself given to dissipation (as the Monday before Lent).
 -- Blue ointment (Med.), mercurial ointment.
 -- Blue Peter (British Marine), a blue flag with a white square in
the center, used as a signal for sailing, to recall boats, etc. It is
a corruption of blue repeater, one of the British signal flags.
 -- Blue pill. (Med.) (a) A pill of prepared mercury, used as an
aperient, etc. (b) Blue mass.
 -- Blue ribbon. (a) The ribbon worn by members of the order of the
Garter; -- hence, a member of that order. (b) Anything the attainment
of which is an object of great ambition; a distinction; a prize.
"These [scholarships] were the blue ribbon of the college." Farrar.
(c) The distinctive badge of certain temperance or total abstinence
organizations, as of the Blue ribbon Army.
 -- Blue ruin, utter ruin; also, gin. [Eng. Slang] Carlyle.
 -- Blue spar (Min.), azure spar; lazulite. See Lazulite.
 -- Blue thrush (Zoöl.), a European and Asiatic thrush
(Petrocossyphus cyaneas).
 -- Blue verditer. See Verditer.
 -- Blue vitriol (Chem.), sulphate of copper, a violet blue
crystallized salt, used in electric batteries, calico printing, etc.
 -- Blue water, the open ocean.
 -- To look blue, to look disheartened or dejected.
 -- True blue, genuine and thorough; not modified, nor mixed; not
spurious; specifically, of uncompromising Presbyterianism, blue being
the color adopted by the Covenanters.

For his religion . . . 'T was Presbyterian, true blue. Hudibras.

BLUE
Blue, n.

1. One of the seven colors into which the rays of light divide
themselves, when refracted through a glass prism; the color of the
clear sky, or a color resembling that, whether lighter or darker; a
pigment having such color. Sometimes, poetically, the sky.

2. A pedantic woman; a bluestocking. [Colloq.]

3. pl. Etym: [Short for blue devils.]

Defn: Low spirits; a fit of despondency; melancholy. [Colloq.] Berlin
blue, Prussian blue.
 -- Mineral blue. See under Mineral.
 -- Prussian blue. See under Prussian.

BLUE
Blue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blued; p. pr. & vb. n. Bluing.]

Defn: To make blue; to dye of a blue color; to make blue by heating,
as metals, etc.

BLUEBACK
Blue"back`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) A trout (Salmo oquassa) inhabiting some of the lakes of Maine.
(b) A salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) of the Columbia River and
northward.
(c) An American river herring (Clupea æstivalis), closely allied to
the alewife.

BLUEBEARD
Blue"beard, n.

Defn: The hero of a mediæval French nursery legend, who, leaving
home, enjoined his young wife not to open a certain room in his
castle. She entered it, and found the murdered bodies of his former
wives.
 -- Also used adjectively of a subject which it is forbidden to
investigate.
The Bluebeard chamber of his mind, into which no eye but his own must
look. Carlyle.

BLUEBELL
Blue"bell`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A plant of the genus Campanula, especially the Campanula
rotundifolia, which bears blue bell-shaped flowers; the harebell.
(b) A plant of the genus Scilla (Scilla nutans).

BLUEBERRY
Blue"berry, n. Etym: [Cf. Blaeberry.] (Bot.)

Defn: The berry of several species of Vaccinium, and ericaceous
genus, differing from the American huckleberries in containing
numerous minute seeds instead of ten nutlets. The commonest species
are V. Pennsylvanicum and V. vacillans. V. corymbosum is the tall
blueberry.

BLUEBILL
Blue"bill`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A duck of the genus Fuligula. Two American species (F. marila
and F. affinis) are common. See Scaup duck.

BLUEBIRD
Blue"bird`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small song bird (Sialia sialis), very common in the United
States, and, in the north, one of the earliest to arrive in spring.
The male is blue, with the breast reddish. It is related to the
European robin. Pairy bluebird (Zoöl.), a brilliant Indian or East
Indian bird of the genus Irena, of several species.

BLUE BONNET; BLUE-BONNET
Blue" bon`net or Blue"-bon`net, n.

1. A broad, flat Scottish cap of blue woolen, or one waring such cap;
a Scotchman.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant. Same as Bluebottle.

3. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The European blue titmouse (Parus coeruleus); the bluecap.

BLUE BOOK
Blue" book`.

1. A parliamentary publication, so called from its blue paper covers.
[Eng.]

2. The United States official "Biennial Register."

BLUEBOTTLE
Blue"bot`tle, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Centaurea cyanus) which grows in grain fields. It
receives its name from its blue bottle-shaped flowers.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large and troublesome species of blowfly (Musca vomitoria).
Its body is steel blue.

BLUEBREAST
Blue"breast`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A small European bird; the blue-throated warbler.

BLUECAP
Blue"cap`, n.

1. (Zoöl.)
(a) The bluepoll.
(b) The blue bonnet or blue titmouse.

2. A Scot; a Scotchman; -- so named from wearing a blue bonnet.
[Poetic] Shak.

BLUECOAT
Blue"coat`, n.

Defn: One dressed in blue, as a soldier, a sailor, a beadle, etc.

BLUE-EYE
Blue"-eye`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The blue-cheeked honeysucker of Australia.

BLUE-EYED
Blue"-eyed`, a.

Defn: Having blue eyes.

BLUE-EYED GRASS
Blue-eyed grass (Bot.)

Defn: a grasslike plant (Sisyrinchium anceps), with small flowers of
a delicate blue color.

BLUEFIN
Blue"fin`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of whitefish (Coregonus nigripinnis) found in Lake
Michigan.

BLUEFISH
Blue"fish`, n. (Zoöl.)

1. A large voracious fish (Pomatomus saitatrix), of the family
Carangidæ, valued as a food fish, and widely distributed on the
American coast. On the New Jersey and Rhode Island coast it is called
the horse mackerel, in Virginia saltwater tailor, or skipjack.

2. A West Indian fish (Platyglossus radiatus), of the family Labridæ.

Note: The name is applied locally to other species of fishes; as the
cunner, sea bass, squeteague, etc.

BLUEGOWN
Blue"gown`, n.

Defn: One of a class of paupers or pensioners, or licensed beggars,
in Scotland, to whim annually on the king's birthday were distributed
certain alms, including a blue gown; a beadsman.

BLUE GRASS
Blue" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of grass (Poa compressa) with bluish green stems,
valuable in thin gravelly soils; wire grass. Kentucky blue grass, a
species of grass (Poa pratensis) which has running rootstocks and
spreads rapidly. It is valuable as a pasture grass, as it endures
both winter and drought better than other kinds, and is very
nutritious.

BLUE-GRASS STATE
Blue-grass State.

Defn: The Sate of Kentucky; -- a nickname alluding to the blue-grass
region, where fine horses are bred.

BLUE HEN STATE
Blue Hen State.

Defn: The State of Delaware; -- a popular sobriquet. It is said,
though the story lacks proof, to have taken its origin from the
insistence of a Delaware Revolutionary captain, named Caldwell, that
no cock could be truly game unless the mother was a blue hen, whence
Blue Hen's Chickens came to be a nickname for the people of Delaware.

BLUE JAY
Blue" jay`. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The common jay of the United States (Cyanocitta, or Cyanura,
cristata). The predominant color is bright blue.

BLUE-JOHN
Blue"-john`, n.

Defn: A name given to fluor spar in Derbyshire, where it is used for
ornamental purposes.

BLUELY
Blue"ly, adv.

Defn: With a blue color. Swift.

BLUENESS
Blue"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being blue; a blue color. Boyle.

BLUENOSE
Blue"nose, n.

Defn: A nickname for a Nova Scotian.

BLUENOSE; BLUENOSER
Blue"nose`, Blue"nos*er, n.

Defn: A Nova Scotian; also, a Nova Scotian ship (called also
Blue"nos`er); a Nova Scotian potato, etc.

BLUEPOLL
Blue"poll` (, n. Etym: [Blue + poll head.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A kind of salmon (Salmo Cambricus) found in Wales.

BLUEPRINT
Blue"print.

Defn: See under Print.

BLUE-SKYLAW
Blue"-sky"law`.

Defn: A law enacted to provide for the regulation and supervision of
investment companies in order to protect the public against companies
that do not intend to do a fair and honest business and that offer
investments that do not promise a fair return; -- so called because
the promises made by some investment companies are as boundless or
alluring as the blue sky, or, perhaps, because designed to clear away
the clouds and fogs from the simple investor's horizon. [Colloq.]

BLUESTOCKING
Blue"stock`ing, n.

1. A literary lady; a female pedant. [Colloq.]

Note: As explained in Boswell's "Life of Dr. Johnson", this term is
derived from the name given to certain meetings held by ladies, in
Johnson's time, for conversation with distinguished literary men. An
eminent attendant of these assemblies was a Mr. Stillingfleet, who
always wore blue stockings. He was so much distinguished for his
conversational powers that his absence at any time was felt to be a
great loss, so that the remark became common, "We can do nothing
without the blue stockings." Hence these meetings were sportively
called bluestocking clubs, and the ladies who attended them,
bluestockings.

2. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The American avocet (Recurvirostra Americana).

BLUESTOCKINGISM
Blue"stock`ing*ism, n.

Defn: The character or manner of a bluestocking; female pedantry.
[Colloq.]

BLUESTONE
Blue"stone` (, n.

1. Blue vitriol. Dunglison.

2. A grayish blue building stone, as that commonly used in the
eastern United States.

BLUETHROAT
Blue"throat`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A singing bird of northern Europe and Asia (Cyanecula Suecica),
related to the nightingales; -- called also blue-throated robin and
blue-throated warbler.

BLUETS
Blu"ets, n. Etym: [F. bluet, bleuet, dim. of bleu blue. See Blue, a.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several different species of plants having blue
flowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus or
bluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium.

BLUE-VEINED
Blue"-veined` (, a.

Defn: Having blue veins or blue streaks.

BLUEWING
Blue"wing`, n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The blue-winged teal. See Teal.

BLUEY
Blue"y

Defn: ,a.Bluish. Southey.

BLUFF
Bluff, a. Etym: [Cf. OD. blaf flat, broad, blaffaert one with a broad
face, also, a boaster; or G. verblüffen to confuse, LG. bluffen to
frighten; to unknown origin.]

1. Having a broad, flattened front; as, the bluff bows of a ship.
"Bluff visages." Irving.

2. Rising steeply with a flat or rounded front. "A bluff or bold
shore." Falconer.
Its banks, if not really steep, had a bluff and precipitous aspect.
Judd.

3. Surly; churlish; gruff; rough.

4. Abrupt; roughly frank; unceremonious; blunt; brusque; as, a bluff
answer; a bluff manner of talking; a bluff sea captain. "Bluff King
Hal." Sir W. Scott.
There is indeed a bluff pertinacity which is a proper defense in a
moment of surprise. I. Taylor.

BLUFF
Bluff, n.

1. A high, steep bank, as by a river or the sea, or beside a ravine
or plain; a cliff with a broad face.
Beach, bluff, and wave, adieu. Whittier.

2. An act of bluffing; an expression of self-confidence for the
purpose of intimidation; braggadocio; as, that is only bluff, or a
bluff.

3. A game at cards; poker. [U.S.] Bartlett.

BLUFF
Bluff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bluffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Bluffing.]

1. (Poker)

Defn: To deter (an opponent) from taking the risk of betting on his
hand of cards, as the bluffer does by betting heavily on his own hand
although it may be of less value. [U. S.]

2. To frighten or deter from accomplishing a purpose by making a show
of confidence in one's strength or resources; as, he bluffed me off.
[Colloq.]

BLUFF
Bluff, v. i.

Defn: To act as in the game of bluff.

BLUFF-BOWED
Bluff"-bowed` (, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.

BLUFFER
Bluff"er, ( n.

Defn: One who bluffs.

BLUFF-HEADED
Bluff"-head`ed (, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.

BLUFFNESS
Bluff"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being bluff.

BLUFFY
Bluff"y, a.

1. Having bluffs, or bold, steep banks.

2. Inclined to bo bluff; brusque.

BLUING
Blu"ing, n.

1. The act of rendering blue; as, the bluing of steel. Tomlinson.

2. Something to give a bluish tint, as indigo, or preparations used
by washerwomen.

BLUISH
Blu"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins. "Bluish mists." Dryden.
 -- Blu"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Blu"ish*ness, n.

BLUNDER
Blun"der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blundered; p. pr. & vb. n. Blundering.]
Etym: [OE. blunderen, blondren, to stir, confuse, blunder; perh.
allied to blend to mix, to confound by mixture.]

1. To make a gross error or mistake; as, to blunder in writing or
preparing a medical prescription. Swift.

2. To move in an awkward, clumsy manner; to flounder and stumble.
I was never distinguished for address, and have often even blundered
in making my bow. Goldsmith.
Yet knows not how to find the uncertain place, And blunders on, and
staggers every pace. Dryden.
To blunder on. (a) To continue blundering. (b) To find or reach as if
by an accident involving more or less stupidity, -- applied to
something desirable; as, to blunder on a useful discovery.

BLUNDER
Blun"der, v. t.

1. To cause to blunder. [Obs.] "To blunder an adversary." Ditton.

2. To do or treat in a blundering manner; to confuse.
He blunders and confounds all these together. Stillingfleet.

BLUNDER
Blun"der, n.

1. Confusion; disturbance. [Obs.]

2. A gross error or mistake, resulting from carelessness, stupidity,
or culpable ignorance.

Syn.
 -- Blunder, Error, Mistake, Bull. An error is a departure or
deviation from that which is right or correct; as, an error of the
press; an error of judgment. A mistake is the interchange or taking
of one thing for another, through haste, inadvertence, etc.; as, a
careless mistake. A blunder is a mistake or error of a gross kind. It
supposes a person to flounder on in his course, from carelessness,
ignorance, or stupidity. A bull is a verbal blunder containing a
laughable incongruity of ideas.

BLUNDERBUSS
Blun"der*buss, n. Etym: [Either fr. blunder + D. bus tube, box, akin
to G. büchse box, gun, E. box; or corrupted fr. D. donderbus
(literally) thunder box, gun, musket.]

1. A short gun or firearm, with a large bore, capable of holding a
number of balls, and intended to do execution without exact aim.

2. A stupid, blundering fellow.

BLUNDERER
Blun"der*er, n.

Defn: One who is apt to blunder.

BLUNDERHEAD
Blun"der*head` (, n. [Blunder + head.]

Defn: A stupid, blundering fellow.

BLUNDERING
Blun"der*ing, a.

Defn: Characterized by blunders.

BLUNDERINGLY
Blun"der*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a blundering manner.

BLUNGE
Blunge, v. t.

Defn: To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay.

BLUNGER
Blun"ger, n. Etym: [Corrupted from plunger.]

Defn: A wooden blade with a cross handle, used for mi Tomlinson.

BLUNGING
Blun"ging, n.

Defn: The process of mixing clay in potteries with a blunger.
Tomlinson.

BLUNT
Blunt, a. Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. bludde a dull or blunt knife, Dan.
blunde to sleep, Sw. & Icel. blunda; or perh. akin to E. blind.]

1. Having a thick edge or point, as an instrument; dull; not sharp.
The murderous knife was dull and blunt. Shak.

2. Dull in understanding; slow of discernment; stupid; -- opposed to
acute.
His wits are not so blunt. Shak.

3. Abrupt in address; plain; unceremonious; wanting the forms of
civility; rough in manners or speech. "Hiding his bitter jests in
blunt behavior." "A plain, blunt man." Shak.

4. Hard to impress or penetrate. [R.]
I find my heart hardened and blunt to new impressions. Pope.

Note: Blunt is much used in composition, as blunt-edged, blunt-
sighted, blunt-spoken.

Syn.
 -- Obtuse; dull; pointless; curt; short; coarse; rude; brusque;
impolite; uncivil.

BLUNT
Blunt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blunted; p. pr. & vb. n. Blunting.]

1. To dull the edge or point of, by making it thicker; to make blunt.
Shak.

2. To repress or weaken, as any appetite, desire, or power of the
mind; to impair the force, keenness, or susceptibility, of; as, to
blunt the feelings.

BLUNT
Blunt, n.

1. A fencer's foil. [Obs.]

2. A short needle with a strong point. See Needle.

3. Money. [Cant] Beaconsfield.

BLUNTISH
Blunt"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat blunt.
 -- Blunt"ish*ness, n.

BLUNTLY
Blunt"ly, adv.

Defn: In a blunt manner; coarsely; plainly; abruptly; without
delicacy, or the usual forms of civility.
Sometimes after bluntly giving his opinions, he would quietly lay
himself asleep until the end of their deliberations. Jeffrey.

BLUNTNESS
Blunt"ness, n.

1. Want of edge or point; dullness; obtuseness; want of sharpness.
The multitude of elements and bluntness of angles. Holland.

2. A bruptness of address; rude plainness. "Bluntness of speech."
Boyle.

BLUNT-WITTED
Blunt"-wit`ted, n.

Defn: Dull; stupid.
Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanor! Shak.

BLUR
Blur, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blurred; p. pr. & vb. n. Blurring.] Etym:
[Prob. of same origin as blear. See Blear.]

1. To render obscure by making the form or outline of confused and
uncertain, as by soiling; to smear; to make indistinct and confused;
as, to blur manuscript by handling it while damp; to blur the
impression of a woodcut by an excess of ink.
But time hath nothing blurred those lines of favor Which then he
wore. Shak.

2. To cause imperfection of vision in; to dim; to darken.
Her eyes are blurred with the lightning's glare. J. R. Drake.

3. To sully; to stain; to blemish, as reputation.
Sarcasms may eclipse thine own, But can not blur my lost renown.
Hudibras.

Syn.
 -- To spot; blot; disfigure; stain; sully.

BLUR
Blur, n.

1. That which obscures without effacing; a stain; a blot, as upon
paper or other substance.
As for those who cleanse blurs with blotted fingers, they make it
worse. Fuller.

2. A dim, confused appearance; indistinctness of vision; as, to see
things with a blur; it was all blur.

3. A moral stain or blot.
Lest she . . . will with her railing set a great blur on mine honesty
and good name. Udall.

BLURRY
Blur"ry, a.

Defn: Full of blurs; blurred.

BLURT
Blurt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blurted; p. pr. & vb. n. Blurting.] Etym:
[Cf. Blare.]

Defn: To utter suddenly and unadvisedly; to divulge inconsiderately;
to ejaculate; -- commonly with out.
Others . . . can not hold, but blurt out, those words which afterward
they forced to eat. Hakewill.
To blurt at, to speak contemptuously of. [Obs.] Shak.

BLUSH
Blush v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blushed; p. pr. & vb. n. Blushing.] Etym:
[OE. bluschen to shine, look, turn red, AS. blyscan to glow; akin to
blysa a torch, abl to blush, D. blozen, Dan. blusse to blaze, blush.]

1. To become suffused with red in the cheeks, as from a sense of
shame, modesty, or confusion; to become red from such cause, as the
cheeks or face.
To the nuptial bower I led her blushing like the morn. Milton.
In the presence of the shameless and unblushing, the young offender
is ashamed to blush. Buckminster.
He would stroke The head of modest and ingenuous worth, That blushed
at its own praise. Cowper.

2. To grow red; to have a red or rosy color.
The sun of heaven, methought, was loth to set, But stayed, and made
the western welkin blush. Shak.

3. To have a warm and delicate color, as some roses and other
flowers.
Full many a flower is born to blush unseen. T. Gray.

BLUSH
Blush, v. t.

1. To suffuse with a blush; to redden; to make roseate. [Obs.]
To blush and beautify the cheek again. Shak.

2. To express or make known by blushing.
I'll blush you thanks. Shak.

BLUSH
Blush, n.

1. A suffusion of the cheeks or face with red, as from a sense of
shame, confusion, or modesty.
The rosy blush of love. Trumbull.

2. A red or reddish color; a rosy tint.
Light's last blushes tinged the distant hills. Lyttleton.
At first blush, or At the first blush, at the first appearance or
view. "At the first blush, we thought they had been ships come from
France." Hakluyt.

Note: This phrase is used now more of ideas, opinions, etc., than of
material things. "All purely identical propositions, obviously, and
at first blush, appear." etc. Locke.
 -- To put to the blush, to cause to blush with shame; to put to
shame.

BLUSHER
Blush"er, n.

Defn: One that blushes.

BLUSHET
Blush"et, n.

Defn: A modest girl. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

BLUSHFUL
Blush"ful, a.

Defn: Full of blushes.
While from his ardent look the turning Spring Averts her blushful
face. Thomson.

BLUSHING
Blush"ing, a.

Defn: Showing blushes; rosy red; having a warm and delicate color
like some roses and other flowers; blooming; ruddy; roseate.
The dappled pink and blushing rose. Prior.

BLUSHING
Blush"ing, n.

Defn: The act of turning red; the appearance of a reddish color or
flush upon the cheeks.

BLUSHINGLY
Blush"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a blushing manner; with a blush or blushes; as, to answer or
confess blushingly.

BLUSHLESS
Blush"less, a.

Defn: Free from blushes; incapable of blushing; shameless; impudent.
Vice now, secure, her blushless front shall raise. Dodsley.

BLUSHY
Blush"y, a.

Defn: Like a blush; having the color of a blush; rosy. [R.] "A blushy
color." Harvey.

BLUSTER
Blus"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blustered; p. pr. & vb. n. Blustering.]
Etym: [Allied to blast.]

1. To blow fitfully with violence and noise, as wind; to be windy and
boisterous, as the weather.
And ever-threatening storms Of Chaos blustering round. Milton.

2. To talk with noisy violence; to swagger, as a turbulent or
boasting person; to act in a noisy, tumultuous way; to play the
bully; to storm; to rage.
Your ministerial directors blustered like tragic tyrants. Burke.

BLUSTER
Blus"ter, v. t.

Defn: To utter, or do, with noisy violence; to force by blustering;
to bully.
He bloweth and blustereth out . . . his abominable blasphemy. Sir T.
More.
As if therewith he meant to bluster all princes into a perfect
obedience to his commands. Fuller.

BLUSTER
Blus"ter, n.

1. Fitful noise and violence, as of a storm; violent winds;
boisterousness.
To the winds they set Their corners, when with bluster to confound
Sea, air, and shore. Milton.

2. Noisy and violent or threatening talk; noisy and boastful
language. L'Estrange.

Syn.
 -- Noise; boisterousness; tumult; turbulence; confusion; boasting;
swaggering; bullying.

BLUSTERER
Blus"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, blusters; a noisy swaggerer.

BLUSTERING
Blus"ter*ing, a.

1. Exhibiting noisy violence, as the wind; stormy; tumultuous.
A tempest and a blustering day. Shak.

2. Uttering noisy threats; noisy and swaggering; boisterous. "A
blustering fellow." L'Estrange.

BLUSTERINGLY
Blus"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a blustering manner.

BLUSTEROUS
Blus"ter*ous, a.

Defn: Inclined to bluster; given to blustering; blustering. Motley.

BLUSTROUS
Blus"trous, a.

Defn: Blusterous. Shak.

BO
Bo, interj. Etym: [Cf. W. bw, an interj. of threatening or
frightening; n., terror, fear, dread.]

Defn: An exclamation used to startle or frighten. [Spelt also boh and
boo.]

BOA
Bo"a, n.; pl. Boas . Etym: [L. boa a kind of water serpent. Perh. fr.
bos an ox.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A genus of large American serpents, including the boa
constrictor, the emperor boa of Mexico (B. imperator), and the
chevalier boa of Peru (B. eques).

Note: The name is also applied to related genera; as, the dog-headed
boa (Xiphosoma caninum).

2. A long, round fur tippet; -- so called from its resemblance in
shape to the boa constrictor.

BOA CONSTRICTOR
Bo"a con*strict"or. Etym: [NL. See Boa, and Constrictor.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large and powerful serpent of tropical America, sometimes
twenty or thirty feet long. See Illustration in Appendix.

Note: It has a succession of spots, alternately black and yellow,
extending along the back. It kills its prey by constriction. The name
is also loosely applied to other large serpents which crush their
prey, particularly to those of the genus Python, found in Asia and
Africa.

BOANERGES
Bo`a*ner"ges. Etym: [Gr. , fr. Heb. bn sons of thunder.
 -- an appellation given by Christ to two of his disciples (James and
John). See Mark iii. 17.]

Defn: Any declamatory and vociferous preacher or orator.

BOAR
Boar, n. Etym: [OE. bar, bor, bore, AS. bar; akin to OHG. p, MHG. b,
G. bär, boar (but not bär bear), and perh. Russ. borov' boar.]
(Zoöl.)

Defn: The uncastrated male of swine; specifically, the wild hog.

BOARD
Board, n. Etym: [OE. bord, AS. bord board, shipboard; akin to bred
plank, Icel. bor board, side of a ship, Goth. f footstool, D. bord
board, G. brett, bort. See def. 8. sq. root92.]

1. A piece of timber sawed thin, and of considerable length and
breadth as compared with the thickness, -- used for building, etc.

Note: When sawed thick, as over one and a half or two inches, it is
usually called a plank.

2. A table to put food upon.

Note: The term board answers to the modern table, but it was often
movable, and placed on trestles. Halliwell.
Fruit of all kinds . . . She gathers, tribute large, and on the board
Heaps with unsparing hand. Milton.

3. Hence: What is served on a table as food; stated meals; provision;
entertainment; -- usually as furnished for pay; as, to work for one's
board; the price of board.

4. A table at which a council or court is held. Hence: A council,
convened for business, or any authorized assembly or meeting, public
or private; a number of persons appointed or elected to sit in
council for the management or direction of some public or private
business or trust; as, the Board of Admiralty; a board of trade; a
board of directors, trustees, commissioners, etc.
Both better acquainted with affairs than any other who sat then at
that board. Clarendon.
We may judge from their letters to the board. Porteus.

5. A square or oblong piece of thin wood or other material used for
some special purpose, as, a molding board; a board or surface painted
or arranged for a game; as, a chessboard; a backgammon board.

6. Paper made thick and stiff like a board, for book covers, etc.;
pasteboard; as, to bind a book in boards.

7. pl.

Defn: The stage in a theater; as, to go upon the boards, to enter
upon the theatrical profession.

8. Etym: [In this use originally perh. a different word meaning
border, margin; cf. D. boord, G. bord, shipboard, and G. borte
trimming; also F. bord (fr. G.) the side of a ship. Cf. Border.]

Defn: The border or side of anything. (Naut.)
(a) The side of a ship. "Now board to board the rival vessels row."
Dryden. See On board, below.
(b) The stretch which a ship makes in one tack.

Note: Board is much used adjectively or as the last part of a
compound; as, fir board, clapboard, floor board, shipboard,
sideboard, ironing board, chessboard, cardboard, pasteboard,
seaboard; board measure. The American Board, a shortened form of "The
American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions" (the foreign
missionary society of the American Congregational churches).
 -- Bed and board. See under Bed.
 -- Board and board (Naut.), side by side.
 -- Board of control, six privy councilors formerly appointed to
superintend the affairs of the British East Indies. Stormonth.
 -- Board rule, a figured scale for finding without calculation the
number of square feet in a board. Haldeman.
 -- Board of trade, in England, a committee of the privy council
appointed to superintend matters relating to trade. In the United
States, a body of men appointed for the advancement and protection of
their business interests; a chamber of commerce.
 -- Board wages. (a) Food and lodging supplied as compensation for
services; as, to work hard, and get only board wages. (b) Money wages
which are barely sufficient to buy food and lodging. (c) A separate
or special allowance of wages for the procurement of food, or food
and lodging. Dryden.
 -- By the board, over the board, or side. "The mast went by the
board." Totten. Hence (Fig.), To go by the board, to suffer complete
destruction or overthrow.
 -- To enter on the boards, to have one's name inscribed on a board
or tablet in a college as a student. [Cambridge, England.] "Having
been entered on the boards of Trinity college." Hallam.
 -- To make a good board (Naut.), to sail in a straight line when
close-hauled; to lose little to leeward.
 -- To make short boards, to tack frequently.
 -- On board. (a) On shipboard; in a ship or a boat; on board of; as,
I came on board early; to be on board ship. (b) In or into a railway
car or train. [Colloq. U. S.] -- Returning board, a board empowered
to canvass and make an official statement of the votes cast at an
election. [U.S.]

BOARD
Board, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Boarded; p. pr. & vb. n. Boarding.]

1. To cover with boards or boarding; as, to board a house. "The
boarded hovel." Cowper.

2. Etym: [Cf. Board to accost, and see Board, n.]

Defn: To go on board of, or enter, as a ship, whether in a hostile or
a friendly way.
You board an enemy to capture her, and a stranger to receive news or
make a communication. Totten.

3. To enter, as a railway car. [Colloq. U. S.]

4. To furnish with regular meals, or with meals and lodgings, for
compensation; to supply with daily meals.

5. To place at board, for compensation; as, to board one's horse at a
livery stable.

BOARD
Board, v. i.

Defn: To obtain meals, or meals and lodgings, statedly for
compensation; as, he boards at the hotel.
We are several of us, gentlemen and ladies, who board in the same
house. Spectator.

BOARD
Board, v. t. Etym: [F. aborder. See Abord, v. t.]

Defn: To approach; to accost; to address; hence, to woo. [Obs.]
I will board her, though she chide as loud As thunder when the clouds
in autumn crack. Shak.

BOARDABLE
Board"a*ble, a.

Defn: That can be boarded, as a ship.

BOARDER
Board"er, n.

1. One who has food statedly at another's table, or meals and
lodgings in his house, for pay, or compensation of any kind.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: One who boards a ship; one selected to 
